There's no busier season. Just the obligatory Christmas programs alone keep you hopping. Then there's shopping, decorating, and housecleaning in anticipation of holiday visitors. Plus, winter sports season is here—boys basketball, girls basketball, boys wrestling, girls wrestling ... Hold it! Girls wrestling!? Let me tell you, if Trump were still president, girls wouldn't be rasslin'. Or at least they'd be wearing makeup. And mud would be involved. And a cover charge. Thanks, Biden, you and your “equality.”

Anyway, I'm exhausted, so this column could meander. For instance, you know how streaming services offer various movie categories—romcom, action, documentary, etcetera? There's also “Watch Again,” because “Movies I Fell Asleep in Front of” is too long. The thing is, when I come home after a hard day of liberaling, it takes me two hours to decompress, so there's no way I can make it another two hours. This has delayed indefinitely my new movie review blog. Unless I change the concept. I could tell you about the beginnings of a lot of movies. No spoiler alerts, at least.

But that isn't what this column is about. The truth is, I don't have enough material for a full-fledged column, but I get paid $100 a word, and baby needs a new Benz. Thus, the filler. That last sentence just made me $300. Take that, conservatives. I'm not exactly sure how it works but I'm pretty sure your tax dollars fund my opulent lifestyle. If anyone knows, text me on my Obamaphone. Anyway, Seinfeld ran nine seasons, so give me one column about nothing.

Let us pause while conservatives insert the obligatory smart-aleck remark here. (grumble, grumble) Actually, based on recent feedback, Righties don't read godless liberal hacks like me, but they sure are upset about what they think I'm writing. (Another $2,400.)

Say what you will about Republicans, though, as friend recently pointed out, they're single-handedly saving the coal industry with all that lignite in their stockings. Throw in those combustible Foxicon Christmas trees, and it's become quite a fire hazard. Every time Tucker Carlson tells a lie, a viewer's tree bursts into flames. “Firestarter” meets Pinocchio. The War on Christmas is real, y'all. Happy Holidays.

To perpetuate the War on Christmas theme, Republicans are sending out cards this year picturing their families holding semiautomatics because nothing reminds one of Jesus like an AR-15. Especially if you're staring down the barrel of one.

Things are getting intense. I went to a Christmas program the other night and when they sang “The Little Drummer Boy,” it went like this: “So to honor him, a-rat-a-tat-tat …” Meanwhile, libs are mailing out cards with everyone wearing pussy hats and Grateful Dead T-shirts. Clearly, the divide in this country is too great to overcome.

So, it's with great trepidation that I mention this, but isn't it obvious that Santa's running a thinly-disguised entitlement program? Don't tell me he's a liberal, either. The red suit gives it away. Good grief, we're raising generations of children to expect something for nothing! Is this even America, anymore? If I had my way, Santa would leave bootstraps under the tree. Along with more ammunition, of course.

At least the Tooth Fairy's a capitalist. I say if kids need daycare money, they should sell more teeth. Or maybe a kidney. Merry Festivus.