Bob Dole would've made a fine president. There. I did something conservative columnists wouldn't dare do today — express appreciation for the political opposition. If they did, they'd be primaried. Next thing you know, Luke Simons has a column. Alert spellcheck.

It must be tiresome reinventing the same sentence: “Leftist, something, something, love it or leave it, something, something, cold dead hands, something, something, TYRANNY!”

Before Newt Gingrich's slash-and-burn and Donald Trump's lie-and-squirm politics, congeniality and compromise were the norms. Dole exemplified that model, a conservative who knew government wasn't the enemy, that on its best days it did things like prop up struggling farmers and bring infrastructure to rural areas. I believe he'd have supported expanding rural broadband, part of Joe Biden's economic vision.

Notably, it was Biden, Dole's old friend from the Senate, who was called to eulogize the Kansas conservative, not Biden's predecessor, a man willing to extinguish democracy to cling to power.

Biden recalled the time Dole supported funding Amtrak much to the chagrin of other Republicans. Asked to explain, Dole said, “It’s the best way to get Joe Biden the hell out of here at night,” a line the president laughingly repeated during his eulogy.


As Senate Majority Leader, Dole wasn't afraid to criticize the House Majority Leader, either. “You hear Gingrich’s staff has these five file cabinets, four big ones and one little tiny one,” he said. “No. 1 is 'Newt’s Ideas.' No. 2, 'Newt’s Ideas.' No. 3, No. 4, 'Newt’s Ideas.' The little one is ‘Newt’s Good Ideas.'" Dole had integrity, the courage to call them like he saw them, whether you agreed or not.

Each election, I measure candidates and hope two emerge that I believe I can live with. I prefer moderates from either side so I would've accepted Mitt Romney or John McCain.

Dole defeated the Clinton Health Care Plan but McCain famously cast the vote that saved the Affordable Care Act, each acting in what he believed to be in the best interests of the country. In McCain's case, he didn't want ACA repeal rushed through in the same manner in which he felt it'd been enacted. He wasn't a supporter of the ACA, but voted on principle, with the belief that this wasn't the way the Senate should work.

He said once, “Our shared values define us more than our differences. Acknowledging those shared values can see us through our challenges today if we have the wisdom to trust in them again.” McCain had character and a sense of decorum that was evident in 2008 when he corrected a Minnesota woman who questioned Barack Obama's patriotism. “No, ma’am,” McCain said, “He’s a decent family man and citizen that I just happen to have disagreements with on fundamental issues, and that’s what the campaign’s all about. He’s not an Arab.”

Were he alive today, I believe McCain would urge Republicans to not run from, but to face and amend now as best we can our troubled past. “Americans never quit. We never surrender. We never hide from history. We make history,” he said.


I don't think civility, honor, and the courage to compromise died with Dole and McCain, but sometimes I waver in that belief. Still, I hold out hope that we can make history again in the best ways possible.