Ah, the wailing and gnashing of teeth. I don't mean from Ukraine, where, as I understand it from Fox News' Tuckerov Karlsonkov, Ukrainians and their allies, Moose and Squirrel, are senselessly slaughtering savvy Russian invaders. 
No, I mean the moaning at gas pumps from he-Karens driving jacked-up 4x4's with gas mileage only a Peterbilt lost on the Beltway could love.
Let's start with a little edjumacation. Sure, Jethro, you're an epidemiologist, a maskologist, a student of veterinary medicine, and most recently a military strategist, and you understand that this is all Biden's fault, and drill, baby, drill, even though there are 9,000 untapped federal leases in the country. 
And you understand that for years, America's been a net petroleum exporter, and that it's a global market, and that different grades of oil get shipped around the world to the refineries best equipped to process them, but humor me. 
You might learn something.
WARNING: Some of this may involve math, but even Republicans use math. 
Just not in elections. 
What's that? 
OK, I'll use a laser pointer, but you're going to have to compete with the cat.
For starters, ditch the Trump flag and the chrome bull nuts on your hitch. 
It'll save you .05 MPG. 
Now, let's say that gas, which was at $4 a gallon under Dubya in the Great Recession in 2008, climbed to $6. 
If you drive 1,000 miles a month at 15 MPG — you planet killer — you're using 66.6 gallons and spending $132 more — $1,600 more a year. 
Well, if your back is so far against the wall that you can't handle $4.50 a day in extra expenses, maybe unfettered capitalism isn't working for you. 
It sure is for the oil companies and their stockholders (Motto: “Greed Until They Bleed”). 
The majors made $174 billion in profits in the first nine months of 2021.
Buckle up, Goober, because the times, they are a-changing, and for once a major industry has it timed right: The auto industry's transition to electric vehicles. 
Gosh, I hate to test my liberal street cred, but here's a dose of reality. 
While government policy can and sometimes should steer economies and societies, especially when addressing the very real issue of climate change, economics and logistics are greater engines of change, and pain is the ultimate motivator.
Pain at the pump signals the demise of the combustion engine, 160-year-old technology. 
Ballpark figures indicate that charging an electric car will cost less than $40 more a month on your electric bill to drive 1,000 miles. 
Sure, you lose that vroom-vroom sound, but have you ever driven a Tesla? 
It'll make your muscle car feel anemic. 
Acceleration in a Tesla hurts!
The transition away from fossil fuels will only accelerate, meaning fewer greenhouse gasses and less mercury from coal-fired power plants. 
The logistics will take care of themselves. 
Necessity is the mother of wind towers. Or something. 
Soon, charging stations will be everywhere. 
Why? 
Simple.
Demand. 
Which takes us back to gas prices. 
Shortages create demand which increases prices in a capitalistic market where businesses charge what the market will bear. 
Why? Because stockholders — you and your 401k — demand it. 
When no one was driving because of COVID, there was a glut of oil, and prices fell because it was cheaper to sell than store.
We're on the cusp of an energy evolution.
Economics. Logistics. Enterprise.