Now that the smoke's cleared (literally) from the worst halftime show ever, let's step back and discuss this like rational Americans. 
Which is a contradiction in itself.
First off, you may be wondering how we know this was the worst Super Bowl show ever. 
Simple. 
Because conservative scion Charlie Kirk said so. 
He called the hip-hop performances “sexual anarchy” which, in layman's terms, means “fun.” 
And who'd know better than a 28-year-old swinging hipster who bathes in swimming trunks and wears a suit to bed? 
I'm not saying Charlie's sphincter's too tight, but he's producing lab-quality diamonds up there.
The show featured mostly Black hip-hop pioneers and Eminem performing for a league in which 70% of the players (but only 6% of the head coaches) are Black. 
One letter to the editor claimed the show was racist against white people , I suppose in the same way Jews were racist against the Third Reich. 
The letter writer also complained that Colin Kaepernick must have choreographed the show and, in fairness, Eminem did take a knee, but it wasn't a political statement against police brutality, profiling, or other rights protected by the U.S. Consternation. 
No, he was tired. 
Dude's old.
Before this Super Bowl, the record for most heinous halftime performance was held by Janet Jackson — Titillationgate — because a white man exposed her nipple for .00047 of a second on national television. 
This ruined her career because, uh ... she had nipples? 
I think it's still all right to flop one out at Applebee's, though, if the baby's hungry.
It's like real estate. It's about location, location, location. 
If Janet Jackson had included an infant in the performance, I think it would've been acceptable, because most bigots are, if nothing else, consistent, fair and not racist.
Until Snoop Dogg took the stage at SoFi Stadium, Dr. Dre's subversive piano playing was as provocative as it got. 
Then, Reefer Madness. 
Snoop was photographed getting crunk before going onstage, an act that reverberated across the United States of Karens: “There's a Black Man following the law!” Turn's out, it's legal in L.A. Be careful though, ganja could cause brain damage. 
Unlike football.
For some reason, it feels less threatening when Willie Nelson does it. 
When Willie tokes up, it's actually kind of endearing. 
Dreadlocks vs. ponytails. 
Again, location, location, location. 
I don't know if Willie or Snoop Dogg ever shared a spliff, but if so, you can bet people died in the crossfire. 
Sure, medical “experts” claim you can't overdose on cannabis, but until someone does the Willie/Snoop Dogg Experiment, I question the science. 
Pass the ivermectin, please.
Meanwhile, in South Dakota, the Legislature's desperately trying to fend off that kind of decadence by killing a measure — passed with 70% approval — allowing citizens to grow their own marijuana. 
Holy moly, I have 5 acres in Yankton! 
Do you know how much pot I could grow? 
I forget.
Still, I understand where Charlie Karen is coming from. 
Once this cat is out of the bag, do you know what you've got? 
More room in the bag for weed! 
Kidding. 
This is serious. 
Surely, America won't recover from this “sexual anarchy.” 
Pretty soon kids will be listening to jazz, slow dancing, and drinking kombucha. 
One shudders.