You know what made America the greatest country in the United States? Knowledge and freedom, and the great thing about knowledge and freedom is that in America you're free to know stuff that may not even be true, because in America, all knowledge is created equal. It's in the Bible. Or maybe the Magna Carta. One of those.
At any rate, that leads us to another Official Tony Bender Current Events Quiz. Don't worry, though, there are no wrong answers — just wronger answers.
1. Fargo City Commissioner Tony Gehrig has announced he won’t run for reelection because:
a. Realizes he’s lost a step
b. Planning to work undercover
c. Hold my beer
d. Shot a man in Dilworth just to watch him die
2. North Dakota Gov. Doug Burgum supports a crypto business involving a man with burglary, conspiracy, and extortion convictions because:
a. Well, the guy did win his appeal on the murder charge
b. Keeping the riff-raff in
c. Dr. Evil unavailable
d. Reinventing character judgment
3. Justice Stephen Breyer is stepping down from the Supreme Court which means:
a. It’s too close to the election to allow Biden a nomination
b. No longer able to field a softball team
c. He’ll be coaching the Vikings in the fall
d. “Justice Oprah” is a slam dunk
4. The economy grew an impressive 1.7% in the fourth quarter, meaning:
a. Based on analytics, the Packers actually won
b. Now, at least we can afford gas
c. Liberal media’s just trying to make Biden look good
d. What kind of sorcery is this?
5. Why did Spotify remove Neil Young’s catalog?
a. Making room for new Crosby, Stills, Nash & Rogan album
b. Teaching uppity Canadians a lesson
c. The 37 cents he’s going to lose this year will teach him a lesson
d. That Rogan can really shred
6. South Dakota Gov. Kristi Noem's chief of staff likened banning transgender girls from sports to:
a. Thwarting terrorism
b. Thwarting compassionism
c. Thwarting Christianism
d. Thwarting thwartism
7. North Dakota Rep. Rick Becker won’t seek reelection because:
a. Wants to dedicate more time to cable TV viewer
b. Running out of weird-colored suits to wear
c. Keeping up with the Gehrigs
d. It’s not you, it’s him
8. North Dakota leads the nation in:
a. Per capita COVID cases
b. Per capita lefse cases
c. Per capita legendaryness
d. Winter
9. Why Barry Bonds is not in the Hall of Fame:
a. Spotted slumming it with Pete Rose
b. Life-size bronze bust cost prohibitive
c. Spitting and scratching statistics well below average
d. Took being a San Francisco Giant too literally
10. The U.S. unemployment rate is at its lowest since 1969 because:
a. Biden will do anything to screw up the narrative
b. Starvation siege worked
c. Statistics now include panhandlers
d. Immigrants stealing our jobs and welfare
Bonus: The only thing we have to fear is …
a. Facts
b. Skanky Green M&Ms
c. Vaccinations
d. Pete Davidson
