I was gonna pound my head against the wall today but decided instead to write a column about COVID.
First, let's agree that we can question science — you know, like flat-earthers. 
Won't we be surprised when that conspiracy has been exposed? 
That's been one successful cover-up. 
I guess the first rule of Flat Earth Club is “Do Not Talk About Flat Earth Club.”
While agreeing that we're allowed to question science, can we at least accept math? 
For instance, percentages. 
“Think of how stupid the average person is, and realize half of them (50%) are stupider than that,” the celebrated statistician George Carlin once said.
Now, this isn't intended to disparage stupid people — it's about numbers. 
Anyway, the stupidest people are usually the most arrogant, and I'll guarantee that no one reading this thinks it's about them.
Statistics are by nature apolitical, but a recent Kaiser study revealed that an unvaccinated person is three times more likely to lean Republican. 
Meanwhile, the CDC calculates that an unvaccinated person is 14 times more likely to die of COVID. 
It all seems quite Darwinian, doesn't it? 
If you're a creationist, you might be OK, though.
So, what about deaths some attribute to the vaccine? 
Well, through January, there were fewer than 12,000 deaths (0.0022%) following vaccinations. 
However, that doesn't mean vaccinations specifically caused those deaths. 
You could make the same connection to people who die after a cup of coffee. 
(We ought to see if Anthony Fauci owns Starbucks shares.) 
The national death toll's approaching 900,000, so if you consider the odds, it's unlikely that the vaccine's going to do you in, however, that venti white chocolate mocha might be the equivalent of liquid cyanide.
Hey, I like a good conspiracy as much as the next nutter, but I'm a Virgo, so I'm driven to understand the logic behind it — the end game. 
What's the point (or likelihood) of all the fractious governments in the world hiding the fact that the earth is flat? 
And why, with all that power to “control” the masses, would they use it to make us wear masks? 
Really? 
That's it, Dr. Evil? 
(By the way, without getting into microns, when you wear one, make it an N95.) 
Also, if the intent is extermination, why did the masterminds choose COVID instead of Bubonic Plague? 
That one killed as many as 60% of Europeans.
The big argument is personal freedom. 
Well, businesses should have the freedom to keep workers and customers healthy with COVID protocols. 
I'd prefer a healthy military, too.
John Finch is credited as saying that your freedom to swing your fist ends where my nose begins. 
Or, I suppose, when your drunk driving kills grandma.
It's true that COVID victims often have comorbidities, but there's a difference between standing on a cliff and being pushed over.
A hospital administrator lamented to me recently about pandemic complications that clog the system. 
It inhibits treatment for cancer and heart attacks, both of which recorded death rates at 20-year highs in 2020. 
Lacking staffing and beds, it's triage. 
The fists of the arrogant striking the noses of the innocent.
Anonymity doesn't mean it's not manslaughter.
When it comes right down to it, it's not really COVID we're fighting. 
It's incivility.