Thank God we don't live in a theocracy. 
That was my thought after reading the Feb. 21 Inforum column by my colleague Roxane Salonen bemoaning one couple's celebration of the man's vasectomy and their choice to remain childless.
Roxane pledged not to judge but wrote, “Their closedness to life seems dark to me, similar to the bleakness I feel while praying at North Dakota’s only abortion facility.”
Well, that seems pretty judgy to me. 
So, now we're equating birth control with abortion? 
Really? 
You just can't win with these people.
I'm sure Roxane and I could agree on some things, though, one being that parenting is the world's best job. 
I know that becoming a parent made me a better person.
But I've experienced the loss of a child, too, aborted when we learned his condition “was not compatible with life.” 
I've run the ugly gauntlet of protesters with no empathy for those between a rock and a hard place. 
I remember Bill O'Reilly whipping up hatred for “George Tiller the Baby Killer,” the only man in America who would take our case, and I remember years later when Dr. Tiller was assassinated. 
In church. 
The bitter fruit of politicized abortion.
Like Roxane, I'd like to minimize abortions, but how can we accomplish that when every avenue from sex education to contraceptives is blocked by religious extremists and lawmakers? 
They seem intent on forcing women to give birth, so how can a woman possibly achieve her constitutionally-guaranteed equality if the government controls her reproductive choices? 
Of course, the well-practiced response is that there's another human being to consider, including the moral certitude that life begins at conception.
No. 
At that point, it's become a religious argument, irrelevant, because no one really knows. 
Different religions view the matter differently. 
Many Jews don't believe fetuses have souls, so in their eyes, terminating a pregnancy isn't a sin.
The Constitution and a Christian Theocracy are incompatible. 
Laws cannot and should not be based on religion. 
You have freedom of religion, yes, but you're not free to jam it down others' throats like they do in the Middle East. 
Under any just secular legal framework, a woman's rights cannot be secondary to that of a fetus incapable of surviving without her.
Laws prohibiting abortions even before a woman knows she's pregnant serve no purpose other than to subjugate a vulnerable, poorer class of women. 
Women of means will always have access to abortions, legal or otherwise. 
Poor, desperate women will die trying.
If you truly want to reduce abortions, embrace sex education and birth control and stop belittling people for choosing vasectomies over parenthood. 
Not everyone's cut out to be a parent and anti-abortion laws — unfunded religious mandates — shouldn't require it. 
It costs $235,000 to raise a child to the age of 17. 
Well, pony up and send parents $1,150 a month per child, and there will be fewer abortions. 
Guaranteed.
It's a difficult topic, more gray than black and white, but progressives must face this political wedge issue head on and thoughtfully promote ways to reduce unwanted pregnancies instead of being bulldozed by the false “baby killer” narrative. 
Wrest the high ground from the sanctimonious church ladies. 
Seize the narrative. 
Address the issue. 
Don't run from it.