Remember when Ayatollah Khomeini ousted the legitimately installed American puppet dictator, the Shah of Iran, and established a nuclear theocracy? 
Or that time the Taliban established Sharia Law in Afghanistan? 
An abomination! 
If women are going to get pushed around, it should be by Christians.
Religious wackos, huh? 
Can't live with 'em, can't waterboard 'em. 
They're so convinced they know what the invisible man in the sky wants, they feel justified imposing their will on others. 
Can you imagine living in a country like that?
Well, yeah.
Especially after reading post-election messages — there were 29 of them — between conservative insider Virginia Thomas, wife of Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas, and Donald Trump's chief of staff Mark Meadows. 
Meadows thinks Trump's the anointed one sent by the invisible One True Christian God. 
Not to be confused with the invisible False Muslim Heathen God.
Virginia Thomas attended the Jan. 6, 2021, rally to steal back the election Democrats presumably stole from Trump, and later wrote to Meadows, “Help this great president stand firm, Mark! You are the leader, with him, who is standing for America’s constitutional governance at the precipice. The majority knows Biden and the Left is attempting the greatest heist of our history.”
Whoa. 
“The greatest heist of our history?” 
Doesn't that happen every April with Trump's tax return? 
His accountants should teach creative writing. 
Talk about “The Greatest Story Ever Told.”
Lemme see if I understand Trumpthink correctly: The way to preserve the Constitution is to violate it, and to save free and fair elections, we must overturn them.
“This is a fight of good versus evil,” Meadows wrote. 
Truer words were never spoken. 
And from the Trump White House no less.
“Evil always looks like the victor until the King of Kings triumphs,” Meadows continued. 
“Do not grow weary in well-doing. The fight continues. I have staked my career on it.”
How's that working out for you, Mark?
Let's rewind. 
Two Republican power brokers — one of them, Thomas, is a QAnon cultist — and they sought to bring down democracy. 
For Jeebus. 
For the record, when it comes to squaring off against Republics, the Lamb of God is 0-1, and that's with God in his corner.
Don't think that I'm mocking the premise that Trump, who's broken most commandments, and some that haven't even been invented yet, is our heaven-sent savior. 
The Lord works in a mysterious daze.
I'm not mocking God, either. 
No, only the wrong God. 
Don't confuse me with unrepentant atheists like Pob Bort.* 
Far be it from me, like the Bible says, to stone the first glass house, but not believing in God is worse than believing in the wrong one.
Which god to choose? 
That's the conundrum. 
For instance, I'm a Pastafarian. 
I worship the Flying Spaghetti Monster. 
It's totally legit. 
My god's just as invisible as any other god.
Leading contenders for the New American Theocracy are Christianity, Islam, Pastafarianism, and Baconism—the worship of Kevin Bacon, star of the “Invisible Man.” 
And pork products. 
They believe SPAM is immortal.
These religions have parallels, most prominent is the belief that the inability to prove that God exists is absolute proof that he does. 
Think about it. 
Do you think when it comes to hide and seek, God's going to lose? 
Oh, ye of little hands.
* Name changed to protect the guilty.
