Crisis averted. 
Florida Republicans have saved impressionable students from being indoctrinated by math. 
It turns out that math has an agenda, and Florida, defender of all that is straight and Caucasian, just banned 42 “woke” math textbooks for incorporating critical race theory into the subject. 
Really.
The offending problems probably went something like this: How many times can a cop shoot a fleeing black suspect in the back before it's no longer considered self-defense?
a. Unlimited if there are no witnesses
b. I dunno, how many bullets ya got?
c. Stop when your pistol overheats.
d. 867-5309
Math's un-American. 
After all, it was invented in India. 
You could look it up if Florida hasn't already burned the encyclopedias. 
Anyway, too much math only leads to disillusioned youngsters thinking that 8 million more people voted for Joe Biden or that the ramifications of slavery reverberate today.
My distrust of math began when the alphabet got involved. 
Stay in your lane, alphabet! 
And the alphabet is as un-American as math. 
It may have originated in Egypt, but even if it didn't, don't bother researching it. 
It would just upset the kids.
Florida grade school students are now protected from LGBTQ and other letters of the alphabet, thanks to legislation that prohibits the discussion of gender and sexual orientation. 
Everyone knows that the mere mention of such things will, in the immortal words of Alex Jones, “turn the freaking frogs gay!” 
The law will also will keep kids from discovering that if you chant the name “Liberace” three times while clicking your ruby slippers, you'll automatically become gay or an interior decorator or both, but let's face it, if you're wearing ruby slippers, that ship's probably sailed, anyway. Not that there's anything wrong with that.
Florida's Morality Police even canceled Tinkerbell. 
When Disney reacted to the anti-gay legislation by suspending all political donations, the state rescinded Disney's autonomous special tax district. 
The net effect, though, is Disney will pay $163 million less in taxes per year. 
That'll learn 'em. 
Nobody knows how much Republicans might lose in political contributions either, since Florida no longer has math. 
On the bright side, though, Florida students now have more time to major in banjo and snoose.
One abhors generalization, but Republican culture warriors seem obsessed with sexual peccadilloes. 
Tucker Carlson's even tanning his. 
The banner of righteousness is flying high in North Dakota, too. 
Fargo School Board member and tilter at windmills Jennifer Benson recently took a stand against the (unsubstantiated) use of litter boxes in schools by “furries” — people who get their kicks by dressing as animals. 
Like shamans. 
Taxpayer-funded litter boxes? Preposterous! 
Can't they poop on Nancy Pelosi's desk like real patriots?
Then there's the case of North Dakota Republican Sen. Ray Holmberg who exchanged 72 text messages with a man jailed on child porn charges. 
Holmberg says the texts went AWOL. (Cough. Sorry, hairball.) 
Holmberg says he will resign from the Senate, but keep an open mind. 
Guilt by association, like Bonnie and Clyde or Trump and Putin, would be unfair.
