I've lived along the ocean and among the mountains, but as spectacular as those places were, they never felt like home. 
I'm a child of the prairie. 
So, it distresses me to say that on the whole, the state has an inferiority complex leading to the halls of the capitol where Gov. Doug “Leap Before You Look” Burgum’s cheerleading a carbon sequestration pipeline that’d cross five states and land in North Dakota.
It's referred to by some as an “industry,” and I suppose it is, in the way that any landfill is. 
A company called Summit, whose investors include oil mogul Harold Hamm, plans to park liquefied CO2 underground in Oliver and Mercer counties in exchange for tax credits. 
That's it. 
That's the industry. 
Some 17,000 jobs could be created during construction of the pipeline, with 500 permanent jobs. 
In exchange for North Dakota's soul and some easement money for landowners.
We sold out to a fracking industry that injects billions of gallons of clean North Dakota water into wells where it remains tainted and unrecoverable. 
This in a world in which water shortages are a reality.
Will it pollute aquifers? 
We’re rolling the dice. 
Meanwhile, the Legislature, desperate to keep drillers in the state, granted them a tax break but the industry, which is enjoying immense profits, is already headed back to the trough for a bigger break. 
As further evidence that North Dakota is Big Energy's bitch, Burgum used $33.1 million in COVID relief funds to cap abandoned wells. 
That's worse than prostitution. 
It's reverse prostitution. 
You get drilled, then you pay for it. 
So, tell me again about your concerns about green energy subsidies.
The CO2 pipeline would ship waste from ethanol plants which calls into question just how green ethanol really is. 
Is it just a way to prop up corn prices? 
One has to contemplate the ethics in which foodstuffs are turned into fuel in a world with 690 million undernourished people. 
And can we be sure CO2 storage won’t taint the environment? 
Let’s call CO2 sequestration what it is, a lifeline to extend the viability of energy polluters, including coal plants.
During a recent meeting in Wishek, North Dakota, Summit representatives treated landowners like rubes. 
Gosh, when it came to the issue of eminent domain, they didn't want to talk about that possibility. 
They don't want to talk about landowner liability, either, because the landowners’ insurers don't want to touch this with a 10-foot pole.
All pipelines leak. 
Every damn one of them. 
And last year, a CO2 pipeline spewed a green gas in Mississippi. 
Dozens passed out. 
Cars stopped running because there was no oxygen in the air. This stuff kills.
There's a reason the Dakota Access Pipeline was parked under the Missouri just north of reservation land. 
A reason Summit wants to sequester CO2 here. 
A reason some communities in the state were courted in the 1990’s as storage spots for nuclear waste. 
There's a reason we have nuclear missiles in North Dakota. 
We're considered expendable. 
And oh, so naïve.
Industries take care of themselves. 
That's what they do. 
They're not our friends. 
Big Energy is fighting for their profits, not the planet. 
They don't care one iota about you or your grandkids. 
If you do, however, you'd best get informed and engaged.
