It was 25 years ago this month that I had one of the most fun assignments in my career. I reported from the “Fargo” party at the Fargo Theatre. The party was to celebrate the movie “Fargo.”
The movie is a violent, dark comedy. It became a huge hit. Fans and critics loved it. Gene Siskel and Roger Ebert called it the best movie of 1996. The film was nominated for seven Oscars and won two. When the Oscar nominations came out, I did a story about it for WDAY-TV, where I interviewed Fargo Theatre Executive Director Margie Bailly. Off-camera, I urged her to have a big event on Oscar night at the theatre to celebrate the movie and watch the Oscars. Bailly loved the idea, and started working on it.
“I knew we needed to celebrate the wonderful things the Coen brothers put in the film, such as our Scandinavian propensities, you betcha dialogue, and the scenery, such as snow covered highways,” Bailly said. “It was an opportunity to celebrate our heritage and talent from the community. The Fargo Theatre was the obvious place to have this event because of the name of the film, because the theatre is a landmark in the heart of downtown, and because the Coens were independent film makers, and the Fargo Theatre showed independent films.”
Meantime, 1996-97 had been a brutal winter around here with record snowfall, and fears of a major flood.
“There was so much anxiety about the flood potential, “Bailly said. “Everyone needed a party that was wild and crazy and off the wall to release all this anxiety.”
Bailly spread the word about the “Fargo” party with goofy invitations. Suddenly, she was bombarded by media throughout the U.S. and Canada.
On the night of the party, 900 enthusiastic people packed the theatre. Many dressed in the spirit of the occasion, wearing flannel shirts, overalls, bibs, and thick hats. There was a tall guy dressed as Paul Bunyan out front, as well as a mannequin dressed as Ole, and an ice chipper on display.
Also in attendance, and the star attraction, was Kristin Rudrud, who came in from Los Angeles. Rudrud is a Fargo native, and played the doomed Jean Lundegaard in the movie. News media from NBC-TV showed up, as did a crew from “Entertainment Tonight.” In addition to covering it for WDAY-TV, I did live reports for the ABC-TV stations in Los Angeles and Las Vegas.
“This is great. This is a thrill,” the excited Rudrud told me during an interview. “I’m crazy about Fargo and I’m so proud of this movie and proud of the people here. It’s a thrill to be invited to come to this party.”
Bailly said it was one of the most fun projects she has ever worked on.
“I was absolutely thrilled with how things went,” she said. “It was so great to see the people dressed up and cheering. Everyone felt like they were part of the movie. I loved it, and I will never forget this event.”
