It's time to respond to the irrational letter Dr. Rick Becker wrote about my column on him spreading bogus information about COVID-19 .
First, my column was generated based on input from many of the most highly respected physicians in North Dakota. 
In my 40 years in the North Dakota news media, I have never heard doctors publicly blast another doctor in the state, until now. 
The doctors feel that Becker’s misinformation is so dangerous that they had to speak out.
Contrary to what Becker wrote, I did not call for him to lose his medical license. 
I said he should be disciplined. 
The State Board of Medicine has many options, such as putting him on probation, censuring him, fining him or requiring him to do charitable service. 
I agree with Fargo Dr. Grant Syverson that he should receive one of those penalties now and should only lose his license if he continues to deceive the public after that.
In his letter, Becker continued to spread stunning misinformation. 
He said, “Masking offers very limited protection.” 
Many studies prove otherwise. 
A Mayo Clinic study said, “We found objectively that masks are critically important. 
They’re very effective at protecting the people around you.”
Becker writes, "He quotes three physicians who feel the same way. 
This is the key in understanding their hostility for someone who questions the prevailing narrative - it’s how they 'feel.' It’s purely emotional."
“Masks are highly effective in reducing the risk of coming down with COVID-19,” said Dr. Stephen McDonough, former longtime North Dakota Public Health Officer.
Becker went on to say, “The vaccines are new and experimental. We do not know the long-term effects.” 
Here’s what we do know. 
Studies show that you are 11 times more likely to die from COVID-19 if you are unvaccinated. 
At Sanford Health System, almost all the patients hospitalized or on ventilators from COVID-19 are unvaccinated. 
These vaccines have been in the works for 40 years.
“The vaccines have been highly effective, “McDonough said. 
“They are very safe. They are the most studied vaccines in the history of our country.”
As for ivermectin, Becker astonishingly wrote, “It’s extremely safe, and if it has a chance of helping, why would you not take it?”
The FDA forcefully explains why you wouldn’t take it, stating, “Ivermectin has not been shown to be safe or effective for the treatment or prevention of COVID-19.”
“It’s preposterous to encourage people to take ivermectin,” McDonough said. 
“It’s not going to work. 
It’s a bad idea to take pills designed for parasites and animals, to avoid COVID.”
Becker’s words about COVID-19 are reckless and alarming. 
As a physician, he should encourage the use of masks and vaccines and discourage taking drugs that don’t help. 
With his huge megaphone, Becker and others contribute to North Dakota having the most COVID-19 cases per capita in the country, the worst masking use and one of the lowest vaccination rates.
Sources tell me at least two complaints have been filed against Becker. 
Clearly, Becker’s appalling use of publicly spreading falsehoods about COVID-19 is a violation of Board of Medicine rules, and he should be disciplined. 
It’s not about punishing Becker. 
It’s about the Board of Medicine sending a strong message to the public that licensed physicians spreading dangerous nonsense about a deadly health crisis cannot be tolerated.
