Any patriotic American who believes in democracy and the rule of law should be appalled at former Pres. Donald Trump’s latest comments about Jan. 6. 
Trump says the violent rioters have been treated “unfairly” and that he might pardon them if he’s elected again as president.
In case you have forgotten, the treasonous rioters broke into the U.S. Capitol with the intention of overturning free and fair election results, overthrowing the government, murdering then-Vice President Mike Pence and Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi, and tying up many members of Congress. 
They trashed the building, attacked police officers with clubs, baseball bats, flagpoles, chemical sprays and threw fire hydrants. 
All this left about 140 police officers injured and five people dead.
Also, in case you have forgotten, all this happened with the encouragement of Trump, and Trump, seemingly enjoying it, disgracefully said nothing to stop it for about four hours. 
It is frightening and alarming that the Republican Party has now officially declared the Jan. 6 attack as, “legitimate political discourse.”
Meantime, sounding like Frank Costanza during the airing of grievances at Festivus, Trump continues to tell the lies that the election was stolen and that, “Pence could have overturned the election.” 
In other words, Trump is saying that the Constitution doesn’t matter.
The insurrectionists have been treated very fairly. 
On one of the worst days in American history, they broke the law, assisted in an attempted coup and were arrested and charged. 
Many of their horrifying crimes were captured on video. 
How was this unfair? 
How could pardoning these rioters be justified?
To make matters worse, Trump bootlickers Sens. John Hoeven and Kevin Cramer as wells as Reps. Kelly Armstrong and Michelle Fischbach have been remarkably silent about this. 
If Pres. Joe Biden sneezed the wrong way, they would be all over it, but rewarding lawbreaking violent traitors, what’s the big deal?
Actually, Cramer reportedly said Trump would have “every right in the world” to pardon those who took part in the attack at the Capitol. 
Sadly, he would have that right. 
What Cramer should have said is that while Trump has the right, he absolutely should not do it.
By not condemning Trump’s remarks, Hoeven, Cramer, Armstrong and Fischbach give the impression they’re OK with what Trump said. 
Either they are spineless or don’t believe in the rule of law. 
Clearly, they all fear Trump and don’t dare tick him off.
Also very disturbing is that Cramer knew of efforts last year to overturn the election results, but didn’t say anything about it until now after the Washington Post broke the story. 
At the urging of loony MyPillow CEO Mike Lindell, Cramer attended a meeting on January 4, 2021, just two days before the Capitol riot, to listen to the absurd election fraud charges.
Even more frightening is that Cramer received a memo of a plan to use the immense powers of the National Security Agency and Defense Department to overturn the election. 
Cramer should have immediately called the FBI or the Justice Department.
In the meantime, Trump’s comments are further proof that he’s still dangerous and should never be elected president again