My youngest has been playing mother to her baby dolls for four weeks straight. 
She tucks them in at night, feeds them in the morning, washes them, changes their diapers, brings them outside to play and calls them her sweeties.
And if this sounds all sugar and spice, I also want to make sure you know she gets after them, too. 
They can be naughty, and she can be strict. 
This mothering thing, it’s not for the faint of heart. 
Especially when you’re only 4.
Recently I called home from a weekend away and Rosie got on the phone to update me. 
I asked her how it was going, and she said good. 
She’s very busy taking care of her babies.
“Oh, great, how many babies do you have today?” I asked.
“Edie!” she yelled to her older sister in the next room and also directly into the phone. 
“Come here and help me count my kids!”
Turns out, that day, she had four.
Earlier this week, those four children came with us to preschool drop-off. 
Adding four to the two that already live in this house made for a marathon morning routine. 
We barely made it to school on time due to the clothing changes, feedings, teeth-brushing, fitting them all in one baby doll car seat and then, of course, all the kisses goodbye.
Her orders for me while she was away at school? 
Bring them all to day care in Florida.
OK then.
“Is it hard being a mom?” both of them have been known to ask me after I let out a big sigh or, despite my best efforts to remain calm, do not, in fact, remain calm.
I reply honestly. 
I tell them sometimes it is hard. 
Just like sometimes it’s hard being a kid. 
And while I’m not sure if that’s the right answer, it is the truth, and I guess I’ve decided on the truth when it comes to parenting.
Turns out parenting in the truth also means things I didn’t think about, like apologizing to them when I’ve overreacted or admitting there are just some things even mommies don’t know.
So then, of course, they go ask Daddy. 
As if he has more of a handle on where we go when we die the same way they’ve observed he has a better handle on things like numbers and biology and why Rosie just can’t jump inside of the television and live with Bluey. 
(Did I ever tell you about the time I got kindergarten math homework wrong? Did I ever tell you how many times Rosie has asked us to tape her into the TV?)
Anyway, it’s as if knowing all the parts of a horse and every lyric to every '90s country song counts for nothing…
“Did you even go to school?” my oldest asked me at bedtime last night after I failed to properly explain why the nights are longer in the winter and shorter in the summer. It was 9 p.m. on a Monday, and I’m pretty sure I was already sleeping.
But Edie moved quickly from that question to her confession for the day. 
These usually happen in the final hours of bedtime...
“Mommy, the kids at school all gave better valentines than me. 
I don’t think they liked the suckers I brought.”
Turns out jealousy is one of those things they learn in kindergarten. 
So is the one about friends who don’t always act like friends. 
And the one where you don’t always win the contest or learn it the quickest, where you’re not always the best or get the most attention and get left out, and on and on, and it can be hard for a kid…
And hard for a mom.
Which is what I went with in trying to ease her little mind. 
I told her that mommies get jealous too. 
Everyone does. 
And to help get through it, she should try to think about all of the good things that make her uniquely Edie. 
And I try to do the same. 
After all, there are so many reasons to be proud.
Her big blue eyes welled up then and as she leaned in for the hug, I felt like she forgave me for all the things I don’t know and just trusted me on this.
And oh, this parenting thing isn’t for the faint of heart. 
Even when you’re a grown-up…