A few years ago, at Marshall’s, I watched an elderly woman harass a clerk, insisting that she say “Merry Christmas.” Repeatedly.
Recently, we heard the complaints of Fox television personalities, declaring that the arson of their Christmas tree was an assault on Christmas. But religious outrage is not evidence of religious faith. Though a harmless decoration, no Christmas tree appears anywhere in the Bible. Curiously, this same network is typically silent on recent church vandalism or burning crosses. True assault.
Insecurity, it seems, leads us to focus on the symbols of Christmas, rather than the substance of Christ.
Numerous Hallmark cards and movies suggest Christmas is about family. Not really accurate, but the emphasis bears some truth. Family is part of it, yes. Just not necessarily biological blood relatives.
We see families broken or toxic. Christmas can be a lonely, painful time.
Jesus never promised Hallmark families. Despite being the prince of peace, he said,
"Do not think that I came to bring peace on the earth; I did not come to bring peace, but a sword. For I came to set a man against his father, and a daughter against her mother, and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law..." (Matt. 10:34 – 36)
He did not mean a literal sword, as he rebuked Peter who used one. But he meant severed relationships.
After my mother died, almost 27 years ago, I soon found myself alone at Christmas, despite my Christian family. I remember walking around my town in the cold, considering a movie at the theater. I went home.
Eventually, I remembered that family is a part of the faith: “Therefore, as we have opportunity, let us do good to all people, especially to those who belong to the family of believers. (Gal. 6:10).” Family built not on common biology, but a common blood line in Christ.
We recall Jesus as teacher, healer, miracle worker, but he also joined in fellowship with the religious and non-religious. Whether in a feast with the non-religious or communion with his disciples, he enjoyed “breaking bread.”
For several years, I hosted a Christmas brunch. I invited friends to stop by. Starting the day before, I prepared food from scratch – quiche, sausage and peppers, blueberry muffins, and a fruit salad. I bought tins as gifts to fill with varieties of cookies – chocolate chip, molasses, Polish butter cookies sprinkled with poppy seeds.
Brunches expanded to fill the day. One Christmas, our group attended the opening of “Titanic” and came back to my home to root through the fridge and create dinner. One woman I had hesitated to invite. She was nice, but she could talk my ear off. I ended up being so glad I did. She said, “If not for this, I would have spent the whole day alone. My sons are joining their dad on Christmas.”
At a humble spread of bread and meat, warmed with smiles, I recalled the gifts of gold, incense and myrrh offered to a king who chose to be my brother. I remembered love and connection. In a small gift of hospitality, I received more than I gave.
