As a college English instructor, I prepared lessons, and checked stacks of papers. 
I dealt with a variety of student problems. 
I have no complaint. 
As Hyman Roth said in “Godfather, Two,” “This is the business that we have chosen.”
Thankfully, I had freedom, including the choice of textbooks.
This profession of teaching, however - a pillar of civilization - is increasingly threatened. 
Morale is low and teachers are leaving. 
Even locally.
As Michelle Griffith of The Forum points out in a recent story, "More K-12 teachers are leaving or considering leaving their job, and in a survey conducted earlier this month by North Dakota United, which represents more than 11,500 public school teachers, only 41% of 1,100 respondents said they see themselves remaining a teacher until retirement – a dramatic decline from the 90% who said they would when they were first hired."
Griffith found that Fargo Public Schools saw 141 teacher resignations between July of 2021 and January of this year. 
This is twice the norm.
Pandemic stress contributes. 
But there are other factors.
I read a recent post of schoolteacher Katie Lindberg Peters:
"Today I taught 6 periods and subbed during my planning. I helped a young man find safe housing, a sweet girl secure a new winter jacket, replaced a student’s missing backpack, arranged for a replacement chromebook, made sure a student had food for this weekend and gave another a little cash for a haircut… In all, I spent 10 hours working at work and 4 more at home trying to plan fun, inviting lessons."
She added, “Yesterday, a parent on a community online forum said that ‘it’s nice that teachers have finally decided to work’ in response to our school being back in-person. I felt something inside shatter.” Burnout and disrespect contribute to those considering “The Great Resignation.”
Many teachers cited increased political pressure, as well. 
The North Dakota Legislature voted overwhelmingly to ban critical race theory, while admitting, as did Virginia’s new Republican Gov. Glenn Youngkin, that CRT is not even taught in schools. 
Youngkin issued a tipline to report teachers, even suggesting classroom cameras.
CRT and “discomfort” are cited primarily by Republican critics.
Enter Art Spiegelman’s graphic novel “Maus.” 
This book uses mice to represent Jews and cats to represents Nazis during the Holocaust. 
For decades, teachers have used this classic book to teach the evils of fascism.
As Amanda Marcotte writes in Salon,
"Critical race theory was, in fact, just a scare term the right was using as cover for what is an all-out, nationwide war on teaching very basic lessons to kids about important historical events — including the civil rights movement and the Holocaust."
“Where they burn books, they will also ultimately burn people,” said Heinrich Heine, as in Nazi Germany.
Republican President Eisenhower said, "Don't join the book burners. 
Don't think you are going to conceal faults by concealing evidence that they ever existed.” 
But, now, it seems the hooves of the GOP elephant have come to trample on our freedoms. 
Even a “maus.”
In mythology, elephants fear mice. 
As “Maus” sales soar, perhaps this will be the mouse that roars.
