In middle school, I found myself in an ironic position. I attended a mostly Jewish school where I found friends and holiday breaks that included Rosh Hashanah and Yom Kippur.
On the other hand, I studied classical piano at the parsonage of Shrine of the Little Flower. Even then, I knew of the infamy of its founder, Fr. Charles Coughlin. A forerunner of today’s media hatemongers, he gained national fame in the 1930s with his antisemitic radio messages (antisemitism being bias or malice against Jews.)
According to a Pew Study, in 2020, 75% of American Jews found a spike in abuse.
However, in interviewing Steve Hunegs, executive director of the Jewish Community Relations Council of Minnesota and the Dakotas, I found a balance in attitude; acknowledging light and darkness.
According to its website, the JCRC “fights anti-Semitism and prejudice, advocates for Israel, provides Holocaust education, promotes tolerance and social justice, and builds bridges across the Jewish and broader communities.” Our own Forum columnist Jim Shaw is a board member.
Hunegs adds that the organization partners with interfaith organizations and even works with the FBI to ensure security for houses of worship. Its speakers bureau provides a vibrant roster for in-person and virtual presentations.
He said, “Our work is more often characterized by philosemitism than antisemitism….[philosemitism - those who want to work with the Jewish community.] Certainly antisemitism is important….but I always like to be positive.”
One of those individuals involved in philosemitism is Sen. Kevin Cramer, R-N.D. Hunegs said, “ I worked closely with him on the Never Again Act, which provided supplemental dollars for Holocaust education.”
Despite the labels of “Minnesota” or “North Dakota Nice,” there is a historic need for JCRC here. As the website points out, for decades, Jews in the Upper Midwest experienced discrimination: In 1946, writer Carey McWilliams said, “Minneapolis is the capitol of anti-Semitism in the United States. In almost every walk of life, ‘an iron curtain’ separates Jews from non-Jews in Minneapolis.”
Thankfully, the region has improved. Herschel Lashkowitz, a Jewish man, served as Fargo’s mayor for a record 20 years (1954 – 1974). In an act of bipartisanship, Cramer is also working with Sen. Chris Coons, D-Del., on the Choice Affordable Housing Act which is named after Lashkowitz, a modern visionary, who examined the resources cities needed.
In light of a recent Whoopi Goldberg controversy, I asked Mr. Hunegs how he would define “Judaism.”
“Here’s my point of departure,” he said. “Rabbi Mordecai Kaplan (founder of Reconstructionist Judaism) saw Judaism as Jewish civilization with multiple of portals of entry [religion, history, culture, etc.].” One study says it is “anyone who identifies as Jewish.” They can be Black (e.g. Ethiopians), Chinese, or Arabic speaking. Hunegs says Jews are “members of all races. There is no race of Jews.”
On April 26, JCRC is co-sponsoring a commemoration of the Holocaust at Bismarck State College. This event overlaps with an exhibit hosted by the Bismarck Veterans Memorial Library “Americans of the Holocaust" from March 25 to May 6.
One column will not suffice. In the meantime, I cannot forget another irony of Russia’s war of “de-Nazification” of the Ukraine–a country whose brave Jewish President Zelensky has inspired the world.
