“It’s easy to harp,/Harder to hope” – Amanda Gorman, from “& So”
I find myself pulled into poetry. Especially verses on hope. “Hope is the thing with feathers,” said Emily Dickinson.
Amanda Gorman’s recent book includes “Another Nautical,” with these lines:
Hope is the soft bird
We send across the sea
To see if this earth is still home.
We ask you honestly:
Is it?
Or, from Isaiah, his lyrical language, “But those who hope in the Lord will renew their strength. They will soar on wings like eagles…
Birds as representing hope. Soaring, frail or eagle - strong.
Poetry is meant to be read aloud and I do. Like a chant. Like a prayer.
I do this (and listen to classical music and gentle songs) to deal with a dark anniversary: January 6: a tragic day of smashed windows, smeared feces, armed protesters. Serious injury and death. Elected officials endangered.
I cannot control media and politicians who keep muddling or lying about the events. I cannot force others to read the Constitution; to go beyond the Second Amendment. If I could, I’d give others an education on history – Civil War to Civil Rights Movement. I wish I could snatch people who so often seem rudderless, with some latching onto conspiracy theories, extremist rhetoric, in order to lead them to promote justice, fairness, the common good.
I cannot, however. As I grow older, I realize my own impotence.
So, I do what I can to avoid despair:
I continue to use my voice in this space.
I connect to people who I may disagree with, knowing that, unless they are extremists who see me as less or violent people, they are not my enemy.
I try not to take the bait. Some pundits delight in “owning the libs” or non-Trumpers.  The Marjorie Taylor Greenes love to provoke and it’s what their base loves.  Focusing on the incident only gives power to the foolish and dangerous.
I challenge Democrats who fail to publicize the good things – how under President Biden’s watch, there was no supply chain disaster, for example.  As one reporter put it, “Biden saved Christmas!”  I challenge the Democrats who fail to deal with local issues, like homeless camps, crime and drugs.  Solutions like drug courts and mental health facilities are available.
I try to balance discouraging news with hope.  As Katharine Hayhoe, a climate scientist, says,  “For many people now, hope is a bad word…They think that
hope is false hope; it is wishful thinking. But there are things to do — and we should be doing them.”
I pray, with Bible open.  It’s tricky as too many Democrats mock faith and too many Republicans think they have a monopoly on it or think God is a one-issue god.  As anchor Joe Scarborough, a traditional Republican says, for too many, life begins at conception and ends at birth.  Peace, justice, and love are consistent themes throughout the Bible.  I look at Jesus and try to do right, despite failures.
As mentioned, I read poetry and listen to peaceful music.  I exercise.
What I can control, I am responsible for. But I cannot do this alone.
