“We can either be loyal to our Constitution or loyal to Trump, but we cannot be both." – Rep. Liz Cheney, R-Wyo.
Recently, I watched the black comedy “Don’t Look Up!,” in which physicists discover a comet is hurtling through space, on target to destroy Earth in six months. The response is to laugh, to follow pop culture, politicize or monetize the problem. Some critics have panned it, but many in the scientific and medical communities find it accurate, with Neil DeGrasse Tyson referring to it as a “documentary.”
Some see it as a picture of our response to climate change or COVID. I submit to you that although that conclusion fits, it also fits our current response to the prospect of a fallen democracy: the end of America.
Initially, the January 6 attempted coup seemed to bring more unity. In light of roughly $30 million of vandalism (from broken glass to smeared feces), battered police officers (blue lives matter), and the death of several, a riot that delayed certification of Biden’s election, there seemed to be a consensus: the riot was wrong and President Trump was largely responsible for it. Sens. McConnell,, R-Ky., and Graham, R-S.C., agreed, as did Rep. Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif.
Although McConnell still supports the January 6 committee, there has been a tragic turn. Now those who believe the big lie on election theft also believe the big lie that January 6 was not a big deal. Those crowds cheering destruction and seeking to murder Vice President Pence were just overzealous tourists with a just cause. Those Republicans who opposed Trump’s actions – even after supporting his agenda and vote – have been purged from the party. They opposed a president who smiled while watching the chaos and only hours later asked his supporters to stop. Some tried to blame Antifa: then why did Sean Hannity and his family members tell him to put a stop to it early on by stopping his supporters?
This is not about party affiliation. Sen. Liz Cheney is numbered among the most loyal and conservative Republicans, yet now she is considered a pariah. This is about America and whether we want to be a country of laws where individual votes count.
In this communal moment, we must remember that the individual counts. After January 6, all four former presidents, Republican and Democrat, condemned the riot.
Republican Karl Rove wrote an op-ed in the “Wall Street Journal” saying that the “GOP has a responsibility to condemn the riot and those who refuse to acknowledge it.”
Former President Jimmy Carter wrote, “I fear for our democracy,” citing the violence, intimidation, and lies that follow the playbook of fascism that America fought against.
After outlining steps to prevent the fall of our threatened republic, Carter writes the following: “Our nation now teeters on the brink of a widening abyss. Without immediate action, we are at genuine risk of civil conflict and losing our precious democracy….”
Given the steps states are making to destroy the power of Democrats and independents and the violence supported by too many – left and right, even too many churches - it is urgent that we make steps to protect the country we love, a country made up of people who agree or disagree with ourselves. Look up.
