It’s interesting how people use their freedom to impose on others’ freedom.
The so-called “Freedom Convoys,” those truckers blocking streets in Ottawa, along with major bridges, like the Ambassador Bridge connecting Detroit to Canada, stole money from many. 
According to Megan Leonhardt of Fortune magazine,
"The auto industry alone is facing losses as high as $988 million because of the blockades, given that there’s an estimated $141.1 million worth of vehicles and auto parts flowing in and out daily, according to 2021 data from IHS Markit, a research firm."
Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky., made the unpatriotic request that this convoy block cities all over America, including Los Angeles during the Super Bowl.
Fortunately, that did not occur. 
We were able to watch the game, a halftime show of throwback rap, and a kind of throw-back hero at a time when hope can be hard to find.
Coming from Detroit, we are Lions fans, even if we have spent years with brown paper sacks over our heads. 
However, we can still look back at Barry Sanders and Calvin Johnson with pride, even as we marvel at the disastrous coach Matt Patricia.
But there was another Matt we could admire: quarterback Matt Stafford. 
He could inspire awe as a gunslinger, sending a javelin across the field. 
On the other hand, there were times he could send the ball to …who exactly? 
There was no Lions receiver in sight.
After 12 years in Detroit, he went to the LA Rams and found the right chemistry. 
Coach Sean McVay went for broke to collect him and other great players.
Some may be surprised by the good will Detroiters still have for Stafford. 
But Detroiters love this man who gutted out games that often didn’t matter while he spoke well of Detroit. 
So we cheered him on, even wearing “Detroit Rams” jerseys for the Super Bowl. 
In a sense, we felt, he was still playing for us.
And in that last drive, when the team was down and they had lost Odell Beckham to injury, he found a way to win: punching that no-look throw into the hands of Cooper Kupp, yet again.
In his post-game interviews, he showed the character, the old-school humility that we were used to seeing in him. 
He credited teammates, not himself. 
He even heaped praise on Detroit. 
In remembering us, he nearly brought this woman from a tough, cynical town to tears.
Rather than partying or drowning in champagne, he played with his four daughters who tossed confetti at him.
Stafford takes me back to a time when his conduct – celebrating others, his family, including his wife Kelly who struggled with brain surgery – was more commonplace. 
After years of watching cruelty celebrated in politics and entertainment, it was a good moment. 
I like Joe Burrow, the Cincinnati Bengals quarterback, but it was good to see this long – suffering man, smart yet humble, win. 
He is not a great speaker, but his eloquence is in his character, which I hope will remain. 
Rather than brag, rudely, about his rights, his freedom, he offers praise for others, while sharing his heart with his family.