Publicly, I don’t remember hearing so much about Black women’s hair in the course of a week or two.
Growing up, my hair was a source of shame. 
Ironically, it was comedian Chris Rock who did a documentary “ Good Hair .” 
He showed the shame so common among Black women.
My mother would speak of “good hair,” as if ours was bad. 
To conform to a certain standard of beauty, we used hot combs to straighten it, the smell of burning hair filling the kitchen. 
Often enough, she might singe my ear or my nappy “kitchen” at the nape of my neck. 
Burning for beauty.
Although most Black men lost their conks in the 1960s, conks that required burning their scalps with lye, most Black women still processed their hair; even now, extensions and relaxers are popular. 
For years, I relaxed my hair.
Later, after a bad hairdresser incident, I went natural and I’ve never looked back. 
What had been my shame was now my joy. 
Maintenance was much easier, so much so that when we traveled to New York last year, walking in sticky heat, I could just jump in the shower to wash it and go out again. 
I used creamy moisturizers, instead of the gobs of grease of my youth.
Recently, the House of Representatives passed the CROWN (Creating a Respectful and Open World for Natural Hair) Act: a law that "prohibits race-based hair discrimination, which is the denial of employment and educational opportunities because of hair texture or protective hairstyles including braids, locs, twists or bantu knots.”
I support it. 
As long as hair – for Blacks, whites, Asians – is neat, there should be no problem. 
At her hearing, we saw Judge Ketanji Brown-Jackson wear her hair in neat braids. 
She faced the occasional stupid, even racist, question with grace and professionalism. 
Even when asked, on a scale of 1 – 10, how would you rank your Christianity? 
(Not a judicial requirement). 
Her hair did not affect her confidence, as it had for me for years.
Research also shows there are health benefits in avoiding heavy processing. 
Some studies show relaxers contribute to the higher incidence of fibroid tumors among Black women, a condition I suffered for years. 
Given that Black hair is actually more frail, all that heat and chemicals cannot be good. 
Strands suffer greater damage and breakage. 
And it can be expensive.
As Malcolm X said, “if they (Blacks) gave the brains in their heads just half as much attention as they do their hair, they would be a thousand times better off.” 
We must adjust priorities.
