“Too much talk leads to sin. Be sensible and keep your mouth shut.” (Prov. 10:19)
Recently, I read Margaret Renkl’s column in The Washington Post. For Lent, she suggested fasting social media.
I had considered deactivating my account anyway, so, I took the plunge.
Despite all our visuals, we are still crowded with words – politics, celebrities, sports. This “fast” has me thinking about words to trash and, more importantly, words to treasure.
I have no need for the “n-word.” And, no, this ugly word does not become beautiful on b\Black lips. We needn’t insult ourselves.
Nor do we need to loosely toss around words like “Nazi” or “Holocaust” for any offense. You are not starving to bones, tortured, and slaughtered.
In contrast, in talking with Steve Hunegs, executive director of the Jewish Community Relations Council (JCRC), I find words to treasure, in recalling Jewish contributions.
Most of the foundation of Western Civilization rests on Judaism. Around 4,000 years ago, the Jews brought monotheism, a belief in one god.
This led to other results.
For instance, the Jews are sometimes referred to as “the people of the book.” The faith requires knowing the words of the Bible, which meant reading the Bible. Reading is fundamental. Literacy for all.
The first five books of the Bible, by Moses, are called the “Torah.” I was taught this showed a harsh god.
Hunegs points out, “Unfortunately, the Bible, the Torah was somehow characterized as wooden and immutable, not generous and merciful but nothing could be further than the truth. The Torah is a direct repudiation of that assertion.”
The Torah gives us the Ten Commandments, along with the admonition to “love your neighbor as yourself.” This command did originate with Christianity, but in Leviticus 19:18.
And when Jesus faced temptations in the wilderness, he answered Satan with scriptures from Deuteronomy.
Hunegs also reminded me of the verse from Micah 6:8 –
He has shown you, O mortal, what is good. And what does the Lord require of you? To act justly and to love mercy and to walk humbly[ a ] with your God.
Mercy, justice, humility and of course, love – these values are timeless.
I mentioned that I had worked as a substitute teacher at an Orthodox Jewish school. I recalled observing teenagers engaged in spiritual debate. Hunegs explained that this is the practice of “chavruta.” The term literally means “friend.”
“With chavruta,” he explains, “ you study Talmud [Torah commentary] with a partner and the point is you learn to talk with another– to express different viewpoints and to learn from each other while taking different positions on an issue. By the way, it’s the essence of democracy, civil debate…you learn to talk with one another….That’s how we govern ourselves, not always a right and a wrong, but we try to modulate the position… It’s a beautiful exercise, solving problems.”
Chavruta seems to echo Proverbs 27:17: “Iron sharpens iron.”
Some pray for peace in Ukraine, but peace can mean a “Carthaginian peace,” where an opponent is crushed – rubble and genocide. Shalom means peace, along with “wholeness” or “harmony.”
May Ukraine bear shalom. In fasting social media, may I have the same.
