A Utah newspaper reported that 16 law school professors at Brigham Young University urged senators to support Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson’s confirmation to the Supreme Court. 
They said she is “‘exceptionally’ well-qualified to serve on the nation’s highest court,’” noting her “academic achievement, extensive law practice and judicial experience…would make her a ‘distinguished’ appointment to the court. 
They also cite her support of religious freedom.’”
The paper added, that “if confirmed, she would not only be the first Black woman to sit on the Supreme Court, but would also bring religious diversity. 
A nondenominational Protestant, she would join a court currently made up entirely of Jews and Catholics.”
Interesting. 
BYU is hardly a left-wing think tank. 
Perhaps they influenced Sen. Mitt Romney, one of the few Republicans to support her.
If we were to buy the far-right depiction of Judge Brown Jackson, we would see the caricature of a left-wing radical, soft on crime, and even “pro” pedophile — a wink at the Q-Anon wing.
But she is not the first Black nominee or leader whose reputation was distorted so people can deny racism. 
It’s not racism. 
It’s these “complications.”
Black Supreme Court nominee Judge Thurgood Marshall was suspected of being soft on crime. 
Sound familiar?
We saw it with Constance Baker Motley, the first Black female federal judge. 
In the 1960s, she was falsely accused of being a Communist.
Unfortunately, these fringe attacks have grown.
We saw it with President Barack Obama and the birther nonsense.
We see it with four-star general Lloyd Austin, our first Black Secretary of Defense, accused by embattled Rep. Matt Gaetz, R-Fla., as being perhaps the “stupidest” cabinet member ever.
When President Biden sought a new Supreme Court Justice, he was chastised for choosing a Black woman. 
His decision was even called “unconstitutional,” despite former President Trump specifying a “woman,” and selecting Amy Coney Barrett.
We had Tucker Carlson questioning Brown Jackson’s LSAT (law test) scores, despite graduating cum laude from Harvard Law School.
During the hearing, she was interrupted and insulted, interrogated about serving as an assigned public defender or her judgments on pedophile cases, when her decisions were consistent with 80% of the courts.
She was asked to define a woman, when a number of senators could not. 
Sen. Josh Hawley, R-Mo., said he “wasn’t sure” a hysterectomy eliminated womanhood.
But many endorsed her. 
She secured the approval of the Fraternal Order Police and the Crime Victim/Survivors and Advocates Support group, which wrote:
"We are writing to express our strong support for Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson to be confirmed as an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States. 
Many of us have personal experience as victims and survivors of crime, and all have long been advocates and providers of critical assistance services to crime victims and survivors."
Indeed, Sen. Lindsay Graham, R-S.C., endorsed her only last year.
She stayed on an even keel, and, after confirmation, she actually thanked the Senate, including those who harassed her. 
We know such grace is not monopolized by any one religion, but she stated she had only come this far by faith. 
At Harvard, as an insecure student, a stranger told her to “persevere.” 
Her historic triumph shows she has.
