It's time from another dispatch from the trenches of the civil war in the North Dakota Republican Party.
For those of you just tuning in, there's a power struggle between hardliner Donald Trump supporters, who consider themselves the only authentic Republicans, and the more traditional and pragmatic Republicans who have guided the NDGOP to decades worth of political dominance.
For the sake of simplicity, I call the hardliner wing the Bastiat Caucus, which is also the name of a secretive caucus of state lawmakers who are aligned, politically, with this faction.
The Bastiats tried to take over district-level leadership this spring and mostly failed . 
They attempted to elect one of their own as party chair, running anti-vaxxer and prolific Facebooker Robert Wheeler against Mandan businessman Perrie Schafer, and they lost that race as well .
Now some of the state's legislative districts are reorganizing again because of the new district map approved by lawmakers in November. 
And, again, the hardliners are losing.
At the District 34 NDGOP meeting this week (this is a Mandan-area district), local Bastiat activists attempted to pass a resolution to censure long-time incumbent Rep. Todd Porter. A separate resolution also called for Schafer to be removed as chairman of the NDGOP.
They both failed by more than 2-1 vote margins. 
Reached for comment, Schafer acknowledged the resolution and said he looks forward to his "continued work to bring the whole party together."
In District 27 a new chairman, Caden Wurzbacher, was elected to replace Tammy Owens which is a gain for the normie faction of traditional Republicans.
In District 39, in the Dickinson area, Jacob Odermann defeated Ben Simons, the brother of disgraced former lawmaker Luke Simons who was expelled from the Legislature last year amid multiple accusations of sexual harassment , by a vote of 165-77.
In District 36, which Luke Simons previously represented, chairman John Enderle was ousted by Jerome Messer. 
Enderle had been outspoken in his opposition to expelling Simons, calling it an "atrocity" perpetrated by a "kangaroo court."
In District 37, another Dickinson-area district, Rep. Mike Lefor, who also serves as district chairman, held off a challenge and will remain in that position, which is another win for the normies.
The one place where the Bastiat hardliners have had a victory in these reorganizations so far is District 26 where Gretchen Stenehjem was ousted in favor of Sheldon Wahlstrom.
Why does all this matter?
Because there's a battle going on for control of the Republican Party, both in North Dakota and nationally. 
Does the Donald Trump movement have staying power?
That's still an open question nationally, but in North Dakota, where voters cast their ballots in landslide majorities for Trump in 2016 and 2020, there are signs that his most ardent supporters can't find the momentum they need to put themselves in charge.
Ostensibly, the North Dakota Republican Party still supports Donald Trump (which is a shameful thing post-Jan. 6, 2021), but as a practical matter of politics, particularly at the hyper-local level, Trump's movement seems to be fizzling.
