MINOT, N.D. — Neal Stephenson is the man who wrote " Snowcrash ," and gave us the term "metaverse."
He's also the author of " Cryptonomicon ," which was talking about cryptocurrency a decade before the mysterious origins of bitcoin .
The man is a reliable forecaster of emerging trends in the world of science and technology. 
This is why it's so interesting that his latest novel, " Termination Shock ," deals with an evolution in the debate over climate change.
In his book, the people of the world are already living through a climate disaster, using protective gear to stay cool and working to hold back the rising seas.
Those things are portrayed as an indictment of environmentalist politics that accomplished little while focused on trying to address climate change through restrictive policies.
The book tells the story of a small group of powerful individuals — from a monarch to a Texas billionaire — who decide to just start doing something about climate change instead of waiting around for the government.
The solution they organize around is firing large amounts of sulfur into the atmosphere where it would spread and reflect some of the sun's energy away from the planet.
It's a fascinating concept, and I have no idea as to its real-world efficacy, but what interested me was the shift in the climate change political fight it portrayed.
They went from trying to prevent climate change with politics to trying to control it with science and technology.
This is where Stephenson is prescient once again. 
That shift is already happening, right here in North Dakota.
In years past the climate change debate consisted of lefties predicting doom in tones so apocalyptic that extremists have taken to showing up at pipeline construction sites to perpetrate violent demonstrations.
While this has been happening, many on the right have dismissed climate change as a threat.
But suddenly, some on the right are talking differently. 
Agnostic on the question of whether climate change is rooted in sound science of political dogmas, they're acknowledging it is a problem to be solved and pointing out that we can solve it without crippling our economy.
Gov. Doug Burgum has set a net-zero emissions goal for our coal-mining, oil-extracting state , something he says we can attain without hamstringing our carbon-heavy industries.
Meanwhile, Sen. Kevin Cramer was just on NPR this week arguing for a technological solution to climate change.
“I reject the notion that you have to stop all fossil fuel production and all fossil fuel use in America to solve climate change," he told host Steve Inskeep .
"Nobody is going to solve the problem except humans," he continued.
"We can't destroy ourselves in the process of trying to save the earth."
The environmental movement has, to date, been predicated on the idea that to address climate change, humans must be controlled. 
They must be less ... human.
Leaders like Burgum and Cramer are saying the opposite. 
Let's lean on the limitless capacity humans have for invention and innovation to solve the problems ahead of us, they say.
The optimism is refreshing.
