Some Minnesotans are "sitting in the dark, turning the furnace down and wrapping up in electric blankets to keep warm, buying quilted curtains and cutting back on other expenses in order to have enough to pay utility bills they say are averaging $100 more than usual," the St. Paul Pioneer Press reports.
In some instances, the utility bills have doubled.
It's not a great situation. Unfortunately, it was entirely predictable.
For political reasons — and not market reasons, though plenty of politicians and activists and utility executives want you to believe that lie — our nation has been pushing base load, coal-fired power off our energy grid.
Ostensibly, this has been done to make way for a future of renewable energy. 
Only renewable energy can't consistently keep the lights on because the wind and the sun cares very little about the vagaries of our energy needs.
So, in reality, the politically driven demise of coal-fired power has shifted us to more dependence on natural gas.
Only, natural gas is a product of the oil and gas industry. 
Anyone who watches the roller-coaster ride that is gas prices knows that oil and gas are price volatile commodities.
Energy politics, which in places like Minnesota orbit the whims of an environmental movement that thinks violent protests against pipeline projects are a reasonable tactic, have manufactured a completely unnecessary supply crunch.
The unavoidable result is price hikes (and, in other instances, supply shortages).
The regulators are trying to hold down prices — the "Minnesota Public Utilities Commission in December approved rate increases for Xcel’s gas customers, although not nearly as much as the utility requested ," the Pioneer Press reports — but that's not a solution.
That's just more politics.
Gas prices are what they are thanks to the way we've manipulated the energy markets.
Here's an anecdote to illustrate just how acute this issue is. 
John Weeda is the director of the North Dakota Transmission Authority. 
Last year, during a meeting of our state's Public Service Commission, he said grid operators were quietly breathing a "sigh of relief" that Coal Creek Station would continue to operate under a new buyer.
Relief because they were scared of the consequences of taking more reliable, price-stable, base load energy off the grid.
Coal Creek serves the Minnesota market, by the way, and will continue to do so despite the original plans to replace it with wind energy, a turn of events this observer took to be a grudging acceptance of reality.
But let's get back to the utility bills.
This situation is a travesty. 
Our nation has some of the most abundant reserves of energy resources in the world. 
We're also one of the wealthiest nations in the world, and certainly not lacking for the capital needed to tap into those resources.
There shouldn't be shortages and price spirals.
That our citizens are facing skyrocketing utility bills, amid all the other inflationary challenges of the pandemic era, is a gobsmacking travesty.
It didn't have to be this way.
We could have allowed our energy grid to evolve in a way that is reflective of the reality and not the desires of politicians and activists who decided on an outcome they wanted and then went about manipulating the marketplace to achieve that end.
That's not an argument for a never-changing status quo. 
I'm as interested in finding better ways to meeting our energy needs as the next person. 
What I'm not interested in. 
what no reasonable person should want, is more ideologically-driven energy policies based on what the political class wants and not what actually works in the real world.
