There are protests in Minneapolis again around another Black man who died at the hands of the police.
This time the victim is Amir Locke, a 22-year-old man who was shot and killed Feb. 2 during a no-knock raid. 
The cops were executing a search warrant related to a homicide investigation.
Locke was not a suspect in the investigation. 
He wasn't even a resident of the home being raided. 
He was staying there with a cousin.
Body cam footage released last week shows police kicking open the door to the apartment Locke was staying in. 
He is seen to be sleeping on a sofa covered in a blanket. 
As police enter, shouting and making a great deal of noise, he rises with a handgun in his hand, though based on the video it's not clear he was intending to shoot anyone. 
His trigger finger was away from the trigger, extended along the gun in a practice anyone familiar with firearm safety would recognize.
But the police shot him, and they used the presence of the gun as justification.
Only, Locke's family says the gun was legally purchased and legally owned. 
The Second Amendment gives every American citizen the right to keep and bear arms.
It appears the only thing Locke did wrong was grabbing his apparently legal firearm when startled out of sleep by the loud sounds of someone breaking into the home he was staying in.
That this particular home invasion was executed by cops who were wielding a lawful warrant is cold comfort.
In the wake of Locke's death there has been a lot of focus on no-knock raids, and that's as it should be. 
The cops do tens of thousands of no-knock raids every year, and a lot of innocent people ( and pets! ) get hurt as a result.
Sometimes the cops even get the wrong house .
The cops argue that these raids are necessary, otherwise, the fugitives or evidence they're seeking might disappear. 
But is that expediency more important than the constitutional rights of Americans to be secure in their homes?
But beyond that, Americans also have a right to protect their homes. 
Obviously, that doesn't extend to confronting law enforcement officers executing a lawful warrant with weapons, but things become a lot fuzzier when a raid puts a citizen in a position where they may not realize, due to shock or sleepiness or other factors, that the people violently entering their home are, in fact, cops.
That's where gun rights advocates (I'm looking at you, NRA) have an argument to make. 
We not only have a right to be secure in our homes, but we also have a right to defend ourselves, and that latter right doesn't dissipate because the cops made a choice to create a dangerous situation for all involved.
If we believe Americans have a right to be secure in their homes and to defend themselves, then we cannot accept that Locke deserved to die because he grabbed a gun when someone kicked in his door.