This week the folks at North Dakota State University threw themselves a party over the success of the "In Our Hands" fundraising campaign which, to their credit, has shattered records.
They've raked in more than a half-billion dollars for the land grant university. 
The $586.7 million raised blew past their original $400 million goal .
“This campaign, at the end of the day, is about our students,” NDSU Foundation President and CEO John Glover said during the celebratory event.
But scrutiny of how those donations are allocated among NDSU's various departments and colleges shows that the campaign was about some students a lot more than others. 
Specifically, the very small minority of students who participate in campus athletics.
According to data I obtained from the foundation, donations to athletics, which is to say the combined total given to the athletics department and NDSU's Team Makers Athletic Fund, was more than $160.3 million, a total that includes almost $74 million for scholarships.
Our health care industry has been facing nursing shortages for years, a problem exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic, yet the Health Professions category received just $11.4 million for scholarships as a part of a $45.5 million total.
We're facing educator shortages too, yet this campaign raised just $2.66 million for scholarships in the Human Sciences and Education Department, part of $6.465 million in total giving for that category.
The data I obtained had a catch-all category called Interdisciplinary that encompasses donations to "fund purposes that cross traditional discipline categories," as NDSU Foundation communications director Nicole Thom-Arens explained it to me. 
That includes initiatives such as the Bison Bidders Bowl and the Impact Fund which are focused on academics, but also unrestricted gifts which could be used for athletics.
But even if we divvy up the $173.6 million in giving lumped into this category among the seven nonathletics colleges/departments, none of them come close to the more than $160 million contributed to athletics.
Are those the right priorities for a taxpayer-funded institution that was founded to educate students and not operate as a sort of sports entertainment enterprise?
This isn't a criticism of the NDSU Foundation, necessarily. 
It's not like they're turning down donations to academic programs in favor of athletics. 
At least, I hope they're not.
What these donation totals represent are our society's priorities when it comes to higher education, and those priorities stink.
Outgoing NDSU President Dean Bresciani, measured by his job performance as the leader of an academic institution, was not good at his job.
That's why his contract wasn't renewed by the state Board of Higher Education.
Yet he's widely seen as a successful president because of the success of NDSU's football team during his tenure, a reflection of the same cruddy priorities that lead the NDSU Foundation to raise 10 times more for athletic scholarships than they did for math/science scholarships.
Or four times more than the scholarships for health professions.
Or nearly three times more than the scholarships for engineering.
This is an unpopular opinion, because our society loves sports, generally, and football, specifically, but at some point we have to get our institutions of higher education focused on academics again.