It is looking more and more likely that we will see another summer of “mostly peaceful” protests across our divided country. 
The topic will probably be the U.S. Supreme Court opinion on the Dobbs case. 
But, let’s be honest, the topic really does not matter – it could be any number of topics to justify the outrage.
For those who benefit when the factions – the two teams - are at each other’s throats, the conflict, regardless of the topic, is the goal. 
Once we understand that the conflict is the goal, the hypocrisy, the shifting science, the ignorance of facts is more easily understood.
We cannot have a civil discussion on a growing list of topics, and where we are today as a society can be traced in large part to Roe v. Wade. 
The justification and the science behind the Roe decision has eroded over the last 50 years to be unrecognizable, but it never was about the science anyway and the conflict intensifies.
Civil discourse and critical thinking cannot be allowed. 
Facts and science that are no longer true and accurate (if they ever actually were) must be ignored, just move the goal posts again, and again.
The incoming Supreme Court Justice who supports a women’s right to choose an abortion cannot even define what a woman is. 
That is where we are at today. 
There cannot be a meaningful discussion when we hold such different views on science, on the meaning of words, on what it means to be a member of society. 
But again, that is the point. 
The conflict is the point.
We did not arrive at this unhealthy, unsustainable place overnight. 
The causes may have been subtle at first, but today it is in your face. 
It cannot be ignored. 
In far too many places our education system no longer teaches children to think or reason for themselves. 
Social and emotional learning is not going to produce critical thinkers, and that is by design.
It has been a few years since my grade school days at Rickard Elementary in Williston, but I do not remember any of my teachers talking about their sex lives or what they did with their partner over the weekend. 
Do you? 
And when you get to the point that math is considered racist you understand that children today are not students, they are foot soldiers in training.
Civil discourse and the free exchange of ideas are relics of the past. 
Social media and large corporations are important tools to generate, support, and foster the age of outrage and conflict. 
And not to be left behind the Biden administration now has the Orwellian Disinformation Governance Board under the Department of Homeland Security. 
Just wonderful.
Inflation, food shortages, baby formula shortages, rolling blackouts, another round of COVID hysteria, global warming, diesel and fertilizer prices, and Roe v. Wade. 
No shortage of conflict topics available for the Disinformation Governance Board and our coming summer of discontent.
