In case you were wondering how you are going to pay for your next tank of gas you can comfort yourself by knowing you are part of an ‘incredible transition,’ according to President Biden.
“[When] it comes to the gas prices, we’re going through an incredible transition that is taking place that, God willing, when it’s over, we’ll be stronger and the world will be stronger and less reliant on fossil fuels when this is over,” Biden said during a press conference in Japan last Monday.
We are going through an incredible (and intentional) transition all right, but it is not a transition away from reliable fossil fuels, it is the transition from world superpower to a third world country.
It is more and more obvious that the forced transition from fossil fuels is driving energy prices through the roof. The price of oil is $110/barrel, double the price that was forecast one year ago by the lawmakers in Bismarck. Natural gas prices are at a 14-year high and gasoline prices are going nowhere but up. This is intentional and it is the same old playbook used so effectively against coal over a decade ago. Remember when then candidate Barack Obama said "under my plan electricity rates would necessarily skyrocket."
And now we are warned that rolling blackouts are likely this summer. Earlier this month the prospect of rolling blackouts and power grid reliability was discussed by the Public Service Commission . Power generation is projected to fall far short of demand in coming months, especially July and August. These are peak months for electricity demand primarily for air conditioning and, as anyone familiar with the dog days on the northern plains, winds tend to be light or nonexistent.
Electricity in North Dakota is managed by two Regional Transmission Organizations: Southwest Power Pool and Midcontinent Independent System Operator. A report from America's Power explains the reasons behind this summer’s potential rolling backouts at MISO. What got everyone’s attention is the fact that capacity prices at MISO’s recent capacity auction came in over 50 times higher than the previous auction!
From the America’s Power report, “Not surprisingly, a few days after the auction MISO announced that it is preparing for 'worst-case scenarios' because of a 5,000 MW expected capacity shortfall in July and a 2,000 MW expected shortfall in August.”
Windmills dot our landscape and install generating capacity has increased over 4,200 MW in the past five years. Installed capacity is only one piece of the puzzle, a more important piece is referred to as accredited capacity. Simply put, accredited capacity is the generation that can be relied on when you flip the switch. Wind and solar are intermittent and have much lower accredited capacity.
While installed capacity has increased over the past five years, accredited capacity has actually dropped by 8,300 MW. After investing millions in renewables, we now have less capacity, especially when it is needed the most. Well done.
This self-inflicted transition is incredible all right, incredibly stupid.
