School choice and K-12 education are hot topics in the news lately and the knee-jerk reaction from “left-wingers” is nothing new. 
It may be hard to pin down exactly where North Dakota ranks in education freedom, but there is no question we are closer to 50th than first.
School choice, allowing parents to take a portion of their tax dollars to find the best education for their children, will gut our public school system, so we are told. 
Private schools are not accountable, so we are told. 
It should be pretty easy to find out if these tired old claims are true or not. 
According to the American Federation for Children there are 65 publicly funded school choice programs in 31 states and Washington, D.C. 
And with state legislatures back in session there are more programs in more states being proposed. 
It should be pretty easy to find out whether public education in these 31 states is on life-support or not.
But simply having the debate is harmful to our schools, according to the public employee’s union. 
North Dakota United published a survey citing crushing workloads, stagnant pay and political interference pushing educators to leave their jobs. 
Now the cynical among you may look at the calendar and realize that - as consistent as Ground Hog Day - we will see a series of articles and supporting letters to the editor on issues related to teacher morale and compensation that appear just as the annual negotiations between teachers and school boards get underway. 
Last year’s topic was violence and discipline in the classroom.
The school choice debate is just another attack on public education, as pointed out in a recent column by the head of North Dakota United, and this debate will no doubt help with the coming negotiations. 
A common theme from those who oppose school choice is the use of taxpayer money. 
The taxpayer watchdogs on the left cry that school choice programs divert our tax dollars to parents who choose private schooling. 
That school choice programs squander our tax dollars. 
Not sure they really want to go there, but since they did, here goes.
Per pupil payments in North Dakota, the tax dollars that flow to school districts, are around $12,000 per year, per student. 
If North Dakota adopted a school choice program similar to those in 31 other states parents would be given access to public money to help pay for the education of their choice. 
A generous school choice program may provide up to $6,000 per student per year to follow the student to a private school. 
This is unacceptable to the taxpayer watchdogs on the left, but this program would actually save taxpayer dollars. 
For every student who uses the $6,000 to attend private school the state will save $6,000 – per year. 
My common core math is a little rusty, but that sounds like a good investment return.
And that does not even factor in the life-changing benefits a student receives when they find the school that best meets their needs. 
Priceless.
