In my last column I discussed the proposed carbon dioxide pipeline project and how it has a lot of important backing despite having no paying customers. I mentioned that carbon capture and storage is all the rage in North Dakota, but given space constraints I could not share another CCS project proposed for the Coal Creek Station .
I am all for keeping Coal Creek Station operating, but a key component of the plan is a $1.5 billion CCS project. The plan is a long shot as there has not been a successful large scale CSS project anywhere. Further, it is expected that one-third of the electricity generated by Coal Creek Station will be needed to capture carbon dioxide and pump it into the ground.
So, how did we get here? How did we get to the point that we are generating electricity to capture and store carbon dioxide? Well, it is a long story and no, it is not because of Ukraine. We got to this point because we do not have a functioning government and we haven’t in over 20 years. Congress has long since abandoned their constitutional responsibilities and we now operate under continuing resolutions and executive orders.
Presidential executive orders are not law but they do embolden federal agencies to run amok. And Congress, who has oversight powers, instead focuses on appealing to campaign contributors with appearances on cable news.
Without a law being passed, the Biden administration unleashed a “whole of government” approach to fight climate change. Every important federal agency, and most of the unimportant ones as well, are implementing polices aligned with the Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) movement and NetZero 2050 initiatives.
These efforts, not COVID, not Ukraine, are the primary reason that filling your gas tank is so painful. Food prices are increasing with no end in sight because diesel and fertilizer prices are up more than gasoline. News of food scarcity is now out of the shadows and appearing in mainstream media. BlackRock's Rob Kapito speaking in Texas last Tuesday said, “For the first time, this generation is going to go into a store and not be able to get what they want.”
Now you know why there has been some many stories over the past year about eating bugs!
Speaking of bugs, the high prices, the shortages, the fear: these are not “bugs” of the transition to a carbon free future, they are “features.” After all, if things are going well, if we are energy secure, if there is food aplenty, no one would accept the changes that are coming.
Before you dismiss this as another “tinfoil hat” theory, what does your gut tell you? Better yet, let’s see what BlackRock CEO Larry Fink said, “Behaviors are going to have to change, and this is one thing we are asking companies, you have to force behaviors and at BlackRock we are forcing behaviors.”
Facing food scarcity, we are pumping plant food (carbon dioxide) into the ground. Makes sense.
