There is a march today (June 11) for supporters of "common sense" gun reform. Common sense is a term you hear a lot these days, but it does not mean what you think it means. Common sense, like many words and terms, used to be a meaningful expression, not anymore.
Supporters of "common sense" solutions to the large and important issues we face today simply cannot understand why some of us are skeptical. After all, it's common sense, right? If we point out other examples of common sense that we witness today we are branded as extremists, or Trumpy, or any number of labels intended to isolate people and stop debate.
Before we debate true common-sense solutions, we are going to need some answers about what apparently passes as common sense today.
The stories of drag shows for children in the news are shocking, parents proudly smiling as their children participate and slip dollars bills to the performers. Taking your children to drag shows is now a badge of honor for some parents. It’s common sense, what could possibly go wrong?
Gender confusion and gender transition is another growing trend that we are just supposed to accept. The percentage of young people affected is significantly higher than previous generations. Life altering decisions from puberty blockers to “top” and “bottom” surgery for teenagers and even younger are perfectly normal, no questions.
What is a woman? Our most recent U.S. Supreme Court Justice could not answer that question because she said she was not a doctor. The problem is that too many doctors today cannot answer that question either. I think that is a problem, but apparently, it’s common sense.
The official response to COVID from lock downs to masking to jabs and now the unending boosters – all examples of common sense today. Want to talk about common sense red flag laws? Alright, let’s start with Big Pharma. I have a red flag or two, or 10, about Pfizer and Moderna, any takers?
How is this related to "common sense gun reform"? It is all related. Gun violence does not occur in a vacuum. It largely occurs in our largest cities, the ones that already have strict, "common sense" gun laws on the books. The cities that decided it was common sense to defund the police.
Common sense is not possible when we are complacent, when we value our personal comfort, convenience, our wealth, our stuff, so much we look the other way when traditional morals and values are removed from our schools, our churches , our families.
We are living in a gray world today because too many people sit silent as our society devalues life and steals the innocence of our children. Examples of this new "common sense" are now in our faces, no questions allowed. We’re told to like it, accept it, and embrace it.
Until we can agree on basic truth, not my truth versus your truth but the truth, we cannot agree on common sense solutions to anything.
