I have been traveling a lot this year for work. 
As I flew back to Fargo last Tuesday to beat the blizzard. 
I was reading United Airline’s Hemisphere magazine, and in the article Change for Good United celebrates Earth month by doubling down on its commitment to Net-Zero 2050, “without relying on traditional carbon offsets.”
You might wonder how an airline will operate on zero greenhouse gas emissions without using the offset scheme. 
Short answer, it won’t.
That got me thinking about a couple of other recent news reports.
You might have noticed that gasoline prices are pretty high. 
President Biden earnestly says he is doing everything in his power to lower gasoline prices, but is he?
The Biden administration wants to allow 15% ethanol blend over the summer driving season in a move they say will reduce gas prices 10 cents a gallon. 
Of course, there is more to the story.
Increasing the percentage of corn ethanol will reduce your gas mileage by about 25% per gallon, so you will be visiting the pump more often for that "cheaper" gas. 
This move also comes at a time of growing global food shortages and record food price inflation. 
So, burning field corn instead of using it for livestock feed further muddies the water over the gas price “savings.” 
But at least we all still have that 16 cents we saved last Fourth of July, right?
The president’s other decision to fight the price of gasoline is to release one million barrels a day from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve for the next six months. 
I am sure it’s unrelated, but this daily release leads right up to the November elections. 
One million barrels/day is about 5% of U. S. daily consumption so it is not insignificant, but it, too, comes at a cost.
Last November, Biden released 50 million barrels from the SPR after Saudi Arabia refused his call to increase production. 
Now, after the release of another 180 million barrels, the SPR will be left with about 230 million barrels — about a 12-day supply for the U.S. 
This will cripple the “strategic” part of the SPR.
Of course, that is not a concern because very soon we will not need oil anymore. 
Why, just last Wednesday, the U.S. treasury secretary said, “We must redouble our efforts to decarbonize our economies.” 
Yes, the decarbonization boondoggle is what all of this is about.
United’s planes may be flying on pixie dust and electric cars may be mandatory, but the wind and solar industries will still require oil to be built and operated. 
The SPR may be bone dry, and in the future Sec. Yellin may tattoo "decarbonized"on her forehead, but when our highways need to be re-opened after a blizzard it will be diesel and gas that power the trucks and plows.
The good news is that just a few hundred miles west we are sitting on a strategic petroleum reserve, right here in North Dakota.
