Can we tap the brakes a bit on the transition to “clean” energy? 
It’s the end of April and much of the state is still dealing with snow, frozen soil and downed power lines. 
As I write this, my electric cooperative is planning another round of load management.
I know that "weather" is not the same as "climate", but it does seem like the cold is hanging on again this year. 
I also know that it is not called "global warming" anymore; the name was changed to the more versatile "climate change" for some reason. 
But even with the new name it really is still about global warming, right? 
The United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change just announced for the 40th year in a row that we must decarbonize if we are to reduce future temperature increases. 
That sounds like global warming to me.
So why aren’t we seeing any evidence of global warming? 
Why is it that not a single doomsday prediction from the climate alarmists has come true? 
Not one. 
In 2004 it was predicted that Britain would have a Siberian Climate by 2020. 
In 2008, it was predicted the Artic will be ice-free by 2018. 
In 2009 noted climate expert Prince Charles predicted we had just 8 years to save the planet . 
In 2012, a Reuters report stated 100 million will die by 2030 if we do not act on climate. 
We have been hearing these dire predictions for over 50 years and not one prediction has come true.
I guess being a “climate expert” means never having to say you’re sorry.
Temperature increases have paused but we are seeing a significant increase in dumb ideas, such as shuttering coal plants without a viable alternative for heat and electricity. 
In Washington, state Senate Bill 5974 was passed and signed by the Governor to outlaw the sale, purchase and registration of new gas powered vehicles, including privately owned vehicles. 
Not to be left behind, lawmakers in California are looking to eliminate new gas powered cars by 2035 .
If you believe that manmade carbon dioxide is the climate control knob, nothing I can say in this short column is going to change your mind. 
You can show me your studies and your experts and I can do the same. 
Time will tell.
Of course, as predicted in the year 2000, soon our children won't know what snow is , but in the meantime you can send your kids over to visit, somehow we still have some snow up here.
The fact is that carbon-based energy has significantly improved the quality of life in the developed world, the average life span has increased dramatically over the past 100-plus years and deaths due to storms, fires, heat and cold have steadily dropped since 1900.
Before we upend our lives and our economy and before we relegate the developing world to cold and hunger, maybe there is a better solution. 
Put the “experts” on hold for a bit, what does your mind tell you? 
What does your heart tell you?
