At this point in North Dakota’s political season, it might be appropriate to quote "Alice in Wonderland," who “was so much surprised that for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good English,” Lewis Carroll tells us, and instead exclaimed “Curiouser and Curiouser!”
The most curious of recent developments is Rick Becker’s sudden decision to take on sitting U.S. Sen. John Hoeven, who faces reelection after two terms in the Senate and 10 years in the governor’s office. 
Hoeven has never lost a statewide election. 
In 2016, his last ballot appearance, he won 78.5% of the votes, up from 76% when he first ran for the Senate in 2010.
Perhaps the difference was that Donald Trump’s name was on the ballot in 2016, and that’s what makes Becker’s decision to challenge Hoeven so interesting. 
It brings into sharp focus the difference between the state’s two senators, Hoeven and Kevin Cramer, elected in 2018. 
Cramer is a Trump loyalist. 
Hoeven is aligned with Mitch McConnell, the Kentuckian who leads the Republican half of the U.S. Senate membership.
If you’ve been paying attention, you know of the growing rift between Trump and McConnell, a rift that could run right through North Dakota’s Republican Party.
Becker has served in the state House of Representatives for a decade. 
He’s easily the most creative political figure on the state’s stage right now, and his decision to take on Hoeven only solidifies that judgment. 
To be clear, it doesn’t matter if Becker wins the race or not. 
What matters is that his candidacy will highlight his views and bring attention – and likely votes – to the growing number of right-leaning candidates who are challenging established Republicans.
Already, a number of sitting legislators have chosen to give up their seats, some citing the rancorous tone of the state’s politics. 
Convention challenges are expected in some districts, as well, some against incumbents.
As it happens, I’ve never asked Becker about his attitude toward Trump, but that attitude doesn’t really matter either. 
Becker is an outsider, and the outside is pounding at the doors. 
When he announced his retirement he essentially predicted that the Republican Party would fracture. 
It could be his Senate campaign is a further test of that hypothesis.
Becker’s announcement came as a bit of a surprise. 
When he said a fortnight ago that he’d leave the Legislature at the end of his current term, he disclaimed any interest in being a candidate again. 
That commitment evaporated quickly.
His intention appears to be a challenge at the state Republican Party convention set for Saturday, April 2, in Bismarck. 
The convention’s theme, announced on the party’s website, is “United as One.”
Becker took the route he took when he sought the party’s endorsement for governor in 2016. 
Former Attorney General Wayne Stenehjem won the nod, but Doug Burgum, who’d never won any public office, won the primary.
It remains to be seen whether Becker will choose to “primary” Hoeven – to use Trump’s terminology – or that he could do so successfully. 
Winning the Republican primary is tantamount to election in North Dakota, of course.
As it happens, Sen. Cramer is a veteran of primary contests. 
He bypassed the state convention when he sought the state’s single seat in the U.S. House of Representatives in 2012, and won the nomination in the primary with 54.5% of the vote. 
He had token opposition for the Senate nomination in 2018 and won 88.5% of the vote.
Cramer’s attachment to Trump has long drawn national attention, and he’s become a kind of surrogate. 
The most recent example occurred Saturday, when the New York Times published a piece by Johnathan Martin examining the deepening divide between Trump and McConnell. 
The headline was “Inside McConnell’s campaign to take back the Senate.” 
The article highlighted the battle of endorsements from Trump and McConnell. 
Toward the end of the longish article, Cramer was quoted saying of Trump, “He has become more judicious so not everybody who runs down to Mar-a-Lago for the weekend gets endorsed on Monday.”
Hoeven is at some risk of entrapment here. 
He’s been largely silent about Trump, and reporters who have pressed him have sometimes been treated to rare hints of annoyance on Hoeven’s part. 
He won’t be able to avoid pressure during a party convention nor – if it develops – in a primary election campaign. 
We’ll see whether, and how, Becker might exploit this situation
There’s a long history of newspaper publishers serving in the North Dakota Legislature, including George Winship, the founder and first publisher of the Herald. 
He was a leader of the so-called “Progressive Republicans” in the 1890s.