A look at North Dakota’s list of statewide elected officials reveals a surprise. Many of them are appointees.
This year’s ballot has six elective offices. Five are filled by persons first appointed to the job.
Leading the list – as offices are arranged on the ballot – is Drew Wrigley, appointed attorney general in December, following the unexpected death of Wayne Stenehjem after more than 20 years in the attorney general’s chair.
Wrigley had announced his candidacy soon after Stenehjem himself said he wouldn’t be a candidate for reelection. This isn’t Wrigley’s first statewide appointive office. He was appointed lieutenant governor in 2010, when Gov. Jack Dalrymple succeeded John Hoeven, who was elected to the U.S. Senate that year.
In a way, the lieutenant governorship shouldn't count as an elective office, since the candidates for governor and lieutenant governor run as a team. One wins, so does the other – but it’s always the candidate for governor that gets the attention.
The next office on the ballot is secretary of state, and here there will be a real vacancy this year. Al Jaeger is retiring. He’s held the office since 1993.
Agriculture Commissioner Doug Goehring is a candidate for reelection. He sought the job in 2004, but lost the election to Roger Johnson, the last Democrat to occupy a chair in the executive tower of the state Capitol. Johnson resigned to become president of the National Farmers Union, and Hoeven, when he was governor, appointed Goehring to the job. He was elected in 2006, 2010, 2014 and 2018, and his name is on this year’s ballot, as well.
Two seats on the Public Service Commission are on the ballot. Julie Fedorchak, the current chair of the PSC, is a candidate. She was first appointed to the commission in 2012. She was elected in 2016 and is a candidate for reelection. PSC terms are for six years.
The other PSC seat on the ballot is held by Sheri Haugen-Hoffert, who was appointed to the job in February. She has said she will be a candidate for election to the unexpired term.
That seat was held by Brian Kroshus, who was himself appointed to the commission in 2017. He was elected in 2018.
Kroshus has said he will be a candidate for tax commissioner this year, and his name will likely be on the ballot. He was appointed to that office when Ryan Rauschenberger, the elected incumbent, resigned for health reasons, effective at the end of 2021.
So count ‘em: That’s five out of six elective offices.
The number grows by one if the Supreme Court seat held by Daniel Crothers is included. He was initially appointed to the court in 2005. He was elected to the unexpired term (the one he filled by appointment) in 2008 and reelected in 2012. He’s a candidate this year, and he says this term will be his last on the court.
Four of the five sitting Supreme Court justices were initially appointed, Gerald W. VandeWalle in 1978, Lisa Fair McEvers in 2014, and current Chief Justice Jon J. Jensen, who was appointed in 2017 and elected in 2020.
So that’s four of five Supreme Court justices who were initially appointed. The only exception is Justice Jerod Tufte, who was elected to a 10-year term in 2016.
Appointment has become routine when legislative vacancies occur, as well. The party committee of the office-holder makes an appointment.
Gov. Doug Burgum tried to encroach on that process in the 2020 election, when he claimed authority to name a candidate in a legislative district north of Bismarck. His target was Rep. Jeff Delzer, former House speaker and chair of the House Appropriations Committee.
The Supreme Court essentially spanked the governor, noting that state law clearly made filling a legislative vacancy the job of the party committee. The committee appointed Delzer.
These are not the only ways that appointment has encroached on elective government in the state. A number of boards and commissions have acquired broad powers.
The most publicized recent example is the State Ethics Commission, created in 2016 by an initiated constitutional amendment. Members of the commission are appointed by consensus of the governor and the majority and minority leaders of the state Senate.
So far, they haven’t gotten beyond the squabbling stage, but the amendment gives the commission real power, should the members choose to use it.
While “appointment fever” runs its course through every branch of North Dakota government, election fever seems to be rising, as well.
Petitions to impose term limits on state office-holders have been filed with the secretary of state. The amendment would limit legislators to eight years or two terms in office. Same with the governor. It wouldn’t apply to current legislators, however, blunting its impact significantly.
The petitions have an unusual twist. The amendment, if it’s adopted, could be amended only by vote of the people, and not by legislative action. The state constitution currently requires a supermajority in the Legislature to amend amendments for seven years.
The amendment has its origins among libertarian activists. It’s another sign of the growing influence of the right wing of the Republican Party.
It’s too early to assess how far this will go. District conventions are underway, and reports suggest a widening breach in the GOP – highlighted by Rep. Rick Becker’s decision to challenge Sen. Hoeven, which appears to be a way of checking the temperature of North Dakota voters.
Becker has hinted that he’d like to wreck the established Republican Party in the state.