A column can be a good confessional, and I have a confession to make. 
I am a crank about time.
This is – ahem – a timely confession because we have just adjusted our clocks in order to accommodate something called Daylight Saving Time. 
It is the change that irks me. 
And the ridiculous notion that we are somehow gaining an hour of daylight.
We are not gaining an hour of daylight. 
We are simply renumbering the hours of daylight that we have. 
That amount is beyond our control. 
It is a function of planetary physics. 
The amount of daylight is the same each day as it was the year before on the same day. No gain. No loss.
So the idea of Daylight Savings Time is a foolish conceit to start off with.
It is also an enormous annoyance. 
It interrupts our biorhythms, or whatever our natural reactions to light might be called.
My crankiness about changing the time is long standing, probably because I grew up on a dairy farm. 
Let me assure you: Cows can tell time. 
Their bodies respond to the amount of light, and cows demand to be milked on a regular schedule. 
This is so ingrained that a well-tended herd of dairy cows will appear in the milking parlor on time day after day.
They want to be milked, and they don’t care that the school bus will be arriving at a different time than it has for six months previously. 
This fact affects the schoolboy, but the cows don’t care about that. 
You may trust my assertion that a cranky cow is a force to be reckoned with.
The more important point, though, is that we humans respond to time changes in pretty much the same way that dairy cows do. 
The time change upsets our routines, and demands several days of adjustment until our bodies – and our minds – get used to the new normal. 
More and more health care professionals are asserting that changing the time is bad for us.
Let me also point out that the way we label time is absurd. 
North Dakota is Exhibit A in this argument. 
The state is in two time zones, Central and Mountain. 
The boundary does not conform to the length of the day. 
It gets dark “earlier” at places in the Mountain Time Zone than in the Central Time Zone, because Central Time is observed all the way to the Montana border in communities along the Great Northern Railway line, but Mountain Time was observed beginning at the Missouri River bridge in communities along the old Northern Pacific line. 
The exact boundary has been pretty fluid. The line is now about 70 miles west of Mandan (or about 110 miles east of the Montana boundary).
In other words, “time” was a convenience for the railroads, not a reflection of the state of the sun in any of these places. 
In fact, it gets dark later in the northwesternmost corner of North Dakota than it does anywhere else in the continental United States.
Note: Stanley, my home town, is in the northwestern corner of the state, but the prize for the latest summer sunset goes to Westby, a town that straddles the Montana border. 
The international border complicates this even further, because Saskatchewan is in Central Time but it does not observe Daylight Saving Time, so the customs offices in the two countries operate on different schedules – to the inconvenience of unknowing travelers.
Humans have found all sorts of ways to exploit these quirks. 
My mother grew up near Grenora, N.D. – a town near the Montana border whose name is created from the first letters of GREat NOrthern RAilway. 
This meant I had lots of relatives on both sides of the state boundary, and we visited back and forth from time to time.
The most memorable of these visits involved my uncle Afred, who lived in Great Falls, Mont. 
He was my mother’s younger brother, and they were close. 
What’s more, Uncle Alfred had children who were near my age, so we always looked forward to these family visits.
One summer, Alfred called to announce that his family was on the way to our place and would be there in time for supper. 
This involved a drive of about eight hours, most of it on U.S. Highway 2, which was a two-lane road in those days. 
For whatever reason, they were late. Very late.
But of course my mother had done what German farm wives had to do. 
She prepared an enormous meal. 
This included a beef roast – one labeled “company” as it lay in the freezer. 
Oh! I left out a crucial detail here. 
It was a Thursday evening, which meant that the next day would be Friday, a meatless day in a German Catholic home.
And sure enough! Alfred and his hungry and exhausted family arrived with minutes to spare. 
This strapping youngster was summoned to shimmy up a ladder to set the clocks back an hour, to 11 p.m.
My mother, who was otherwise averse to sin, reasoned that it was still Thursday in Montana.