Well then! 
Wasn’t it a week up there north of the border?
Canada’s Parliament reconvened, but without Liberal Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, who tested positive for COVID. 
Conservative members booted their leader and elected a Manitoban to head the opposition. 
All of them heard the din of protesters who packed the street in front of Parliament. 
The protests, begun by cross-country truckers, quickly spread to other cities, including Winnipeg.
This is Trudeau’s second brush with COVID. 
Sophie Trudeau, his wife, tested positive very early in the pandemic. 
This time Trudeau himself and the couple’s three children tested positive. 
They left their home near Parliament Hill on the recommendation of police, to quarantine elsewhere for safety, lest the protests escalate.
The protesters were part of the so-called “Freedom Convoy.” 
Several thousands trucks and many other vehicles packed downtown Ottawa, cutting off access to the nation’s most prestigious buildings, including Parliament itself, the Bank of Canada, the Supreme Court of Canada and the Library and Archives of Canada.
Police described a “cacophonous din” of blowing horns and shouting protesters.
A neighborhood called “Centretown” surrounds Parliament Hill. 
It’s an area of narrow streets that includes high rise apartment buildings, condo towers, public housing and restored historic homes, shops and a school.
Not surprisingly, residents grew testy and police struggled to maintain good order. 
Trudeau said he wouldn’t call in the military to clear the protesters. 
By the weekend a kind of standoff had developed. 
Many businesses and the school remained closed.
The action in Ottawa spurred similar protests elsewhere, including Toronto and Quebec City. 
In Winnipeg, protesters closed streets near the provincial legislature on the northwest edge of downtown, forcing traffic detours and business closures. 
Four injuries were reported. 
Legislative staff were sent home to work remotely. 
Manitoba lawmakers themselves were not in the legislative building. 
They’re on winter recess until March 2.
Meanwhile, in Ottawa, Conservative parliamentarians expressed no confidence in their leader, Erin O’Toole. 
They choose Candice Bergen as interim leader. 
Yes that’s her name, and yes her biography on Wikipedia says she gets tweets intended for the actress.
Bergen represents the Riding of Portage Lisgar, which runs along the middle third of Manitoba’s border with the United States, roughly from Crystal City and Pilot Mound eastward through the border towns of Morden, Winkler, Altona and Gretna, then north to Lake Manitoba.
Bergen isn’t the first Manitoba to gain prominence in Canadian federal politics. 
Two recent examples are Lloyd Axworthy, who was minister of foreign affairs from 1996 to 2000 in the Liberal government of Jean Cretien, and Gary Doer, who led the New Democratic Party government of Manitoba from 1999 to 2009 and was Canada’s ambassador to the United States until 2016. 
He’s now a business consultant. 
Axworthy recently retired as president of the University of Winnipeg.
Both the Conservative Party shake-up and the virulence of the protests surprised many Canadian commentators. 
O’Toole actually won more votes nationally than Trudeau in a snap election late last year, but Canada's parliamentary system rewards the party that wins the most seats rather than the most popular votes. 
It’s a multi-party system, unlike the United States, and that leads to results that might seem anomalous, just as the American system does by allocating electoral votes by state.
Unhappiness among Canadian Conservatives is not new. 
The modern party is a merger of the Progressive Conservative Party, which dates from confederation in 1867, and the Canadian Alliance, which grew out of the Reform Party movement of the 1980s and 1990s, which involved mostly western Canadians. 
Since the merger, the party has become increasingly militant, especially about social values. 
The older, more established, eastern wing of the party is fiscally conservative but more liberal on social issues. 
O’Toole tried unsuccessfully to bridge the divide.
Bergen’s constituency is solidly conservative on social values. 
It is the heart of Canada's Mennnonite Country. 
Fully a fourth of voters use German in their homes.
As interim leader, Bergen is barred from seeing the leadership position permanently.
As to the protests, Reuters quoted “Robert” as explaining its motives: “We’re all sick and tired of the mandates, of the intimidation of living in one big prison. We just want to go back to normal without having to take into our veins the poison which they call vaccines.”
This despite the fact that Canada is among the most fully vaccinated countries.
Strangely – well perhaps not – there’s an American connection to all of this. A “Go Fund Me” page raised $10.2 million Canadian, but the money was refunded after Canadian authorities complained of lawlessness among protesters. This prompted Donald Trump to denounce “that far left fanatic called Trudeau.” Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis weighed in, too, demanding an investigation of Go Fund Me.
Canada is “up there” only on the maps. From Grand Forks, it’s all downhill to Hudson Bay.
