The anger building over the refusal of up to 30% of the U.S. population to get vaccinated against the COVID virus is justified and overdue. 
The anti vaxxers’ arguments, whether petty political or of pseudo-medical, are beyond absurd. 
They are dangerous, selfish and unpatriotic. 
They are demonstrably false, anti-science and corrosive to the health and welfare of the communities the anti vaxxers call home.
The vaccine refuseniks have become, in effect, a reservoir of disease. 
They are vectors (like mosquitoes carrying West Nile virus); fertile vessels in which a virulent virus thrives and spreads, thus hampering public health efforts to slow the pandemic and eventually end it, as the population attains herd immunity. 
That goal cannot be achieved if the opportunistic virus and its variants have the anti vaxxers as petri dishes. 
The reckless irresponsibility of the anti vaxxers is more than absurd. 
It’s close to criminal.
One of the large health centers in Fargo-Moorhead posts COVID numbers on monitors throughout its buildings. 
They report hospitalizations, patients on ventilators and patients in intensive care units. 
The most infuriating statistic in the numbers is that upwards of 90% of those beds are occupied by COVID sufferers who have not been vaccinated.
Even more outrageous is that seriously ill non-COVID patients are being turned away from hospitals because beds have been taken by unvaccinated COVID patients. 
It’s happening all over the nation. 
I’m intimately familiar with one situation in an eastern state where a family member with a life-threatening heart condition was denied a transfer from a general care regional hospital to a nearby specialized care medical center (where his cardiac doctor practices) because no beds were open. 
And why? 
The place was clogged with unvaccinated COVID patients, the staff was overwhelmed, and ambulance services were stretched to the max transporting unvaccinated COVID cases to the medical center’s emergency rooms. 
That heart patient waited several days to get into the medical center. 
His life was at risk every day admission was delayed. 
And only because of the obtuseness and myopia of the anti vaxxer crowd. 
His story is not unique, as any health care professional will confirm.
There is no justification for refusing to get vaccinated, and then expecting or demanding first-class medical care when COVID knocks you on your keester. 
Stupidity and arrogance should not be rewarded at the expense of people struggling with heart disease, cancer, diabetes or stroke. 
In the triage situations hospitals face because of COVID, the anti vaxxers should be at the back of the line. 
Harsh? 
Maybe so. 
But wait until a sick loved one can’t get a hospital bed because selfish dolts clinging to a perverted notion of personal freedom have taken up all the beds. 
Harsh won’t be the half of it.
