Since the advent of the Trump era, North Dakota’s Republican U.S. senators have demonstrated with disturbing frequency that they are not above pandering to the former president’s splenetic base by advocating really stupid stuff. 
Their latest blunder fits the pattern. 
They are among eight senators who oppose creation of a no-fly list for airline passengers convicted of criminal behavior on commercial flights.
Sen. John Hoeven and Sen. Kevin Cramer said – get this – that a list of criminal airline passengers would equate to the current no-fly listing of jihadists and others who are classified as “terrorists” because their crimes constitute attacks on the United States. 
That’s baloney. 
It’s a tissue-thin justification for opposing a prudent no-fly listing of passengers convicted of criminal acts aboard an airplane. 
The senators likely know as much, and therefore are misrepresenting the scope and purpose of the proposal.
The proposed listing is supported by domestic airline executives, flight attendant unions, passenger advocacy organizations and a huge majority of the traveling public. 
The commonsense aspects of such a no-fly list (apparently not a factor in the senators’ flawed calculation) are obvious. 
The fact that no one would be included on a no-fly roster until convicted of felonious conduct ensures that offenders would be afforded full due process, unlike those foreign and home-grown terrorists who are on the existing no-fly list. 
As it stands now, a thuggish dolt who misbehaves and is charged can get by with a slap on the wrist, maybe a fine, and then get right back on an airplane and go violent again. 
There is no way of tagging the person as a threat.
But make no mistake about it: When these angry cranks, many of whom harbor a perverted notion of personal freedom because of, let’s say, airline and airport COVID mask requirements, assault flight attendants, try to break into the cockpit, or attempt to open a cabin door of an aircraft flying at 30,000 feet, they are, in effect, terrorists. 
Their violence visits terror on everyone else on the plane.
The threat of ending up on a no-fly list could dissuade potential troublemakers from contemplating mayhem on an airplane packed with travelers. 
The prospect of federal prison and stiff fines would be a strong deterrent. 
An active list would keep them off airplanes and out of airports. 
Air travel would be safer and less stressful. 
Force the nutcases to stay home and stew in their own bile.
And here’s hoping that North Dakota’s fastuous senators don’t find themselves on an airplane when a “non-terrorist” attacks a flight attendant – or a senator.