The Fargo Park Board is soliciting comments on the future of Island Park, the city’s oldest and most revered park in a system of parklands, preserves and trails that is among the best in the nation. 
Advice for park commissioners: Don’t mess it up. It ain’t broke. 
It does not need fixing or a “modern” make-over.
Island Park’s storied history is the story of Fargo. 
It was the city’s first park. It was, in part, carved out by the meanderings and manipulation of the course of the Red River. 
The tract is called “Island Park” for good reason. 
Before levees were built along the river, the high ground of the park became an island during spring floods. 
The parkland was part of Fargo’s original townsite plan, as platted by the Northern Pacific Railroad in about 1871. 
The park was an inspired element in the city’s new map. It still is.
Despite the foundational mandate, Island Park’s space has been violated. 
The placement of the Downtown YMCA and Fargo Moorhead Community Theater buildings in the park has never been transparently explained or justified. 
But that’s a discussion for another time.
The park is an urban oasis of mature trees that in themselves are records of the city’s development, history and recreation preferences. 
It’s a space for peaceful political demonstrations. 
Its central gazebo hosts weddings and music. 
The tennis courts are well-used. 
The old swimming pool needs replacement, but that project should be done with consideration of the park’s traditional values. 
(Please, not another elaborate, expensive and cacophonous water park.) 
The park’s late summer craft and food fair is a low-key event in the shade of the trees, in contrast to the carnival-like July street fair on the steamy asphalt of downtown Fargo. 
A solitary autumn lunch on a park picnic table enhances the quality of life for people who live and work nearby.
Thus far, park managers have protected Island Park from becoming a noisy and rowdy playground, which is a fair description of many of the city’s parks. 
The district has plenty of those places, which indeed do address public demands for specific kinds of sports games and activities. 
The system has proved to be big enough and diverse enough to accommodate those essentials.
Island Park, however, is unique. 
It offers appropriate recreation without sacrificing its defining characteristics: serenity, natural beauty, history, and an idyllic gathering place – all in the midst of a bustling urban environment. 
Preserving that ambience should be the priority for the park’s future, as it has been for its past. 
The Park Board’s responsibility is clear: Don’t mess it up.
A shout-out to Fargo’s snow removal efforts this cold and snowy winter. 
Conditions for workers and equipment have been challenging, as sub-zero cold and back-to-back blizzards plugged city streets and closed thoroughfares most vulnerable to white-outs and drifting. 
Still, major streets and avenues were opened quickly. 
Impacts on morning and evening commutes were minimal.
It’s never a perfect process. 
There always are drivers and residents of neighborhoods who complain their streets were not cleared quickly enough. 
But overall, the city’s snow plowing has been quite good – another testament to Fargo’s leadership and management under Mayor Tim Mahoney.
