North Dakotans who value genuine public service will miss North Dakota Attorney General Wayne Stenehjem, who died unexpectedly last week at age 68. 
I am among those mourning his untimely death. 
He was the longest serving attorney general in state history. 
During his tenure he compiled a record of consequential opinions, court cases and legislative service. 
Of special note to media types, Wayne was a champion of the state’s open records and open meetings laws, which are among the strongest in the nation. 
Whether it was an obscure township supervisors’ violation or a back-door stunt by the State Board of Higher Education, Wayne was there to wag a legal finger at the transgressors, and make them do it right.
At the AG’s invitation, I served on advisory boards that updated the state’s sunshine laws, a process made necessary by new technologies for storing and distributing public records. 
The board worked with the AG’s staff, legislators and media representatives, including North Dakota Newspaper Association attorney Jack McDonald, the late Rep. Eliot Glassheim, who owned a bookstore in Grand Forks, and the late Sen. John Andrist, who was publisher of a weekly newspaper in Crosby. 
It was a good process that resulted in the Legislature making careful adjustments in the law.
I moderated a debate when Wayne was running for governor in 2016. 
As usual, he was informed, civil (in the face of his opponents’ incivility) and called up his wry wit to cool heated exchanges. 
He brought those qualities to Forum Editorial Board meetings.
In recent years, I was disappointed by Wayne’s wrongheaded decisions to join multi-state lawsuits challenging the 2020 presidential election results and federal COVID mandates. 
But, the AG’s office is political, and the landscape is treacherous these days. 
His choices seemed more expediently political than legally rational.
That aside, Wayne’s 40 plus years in public life as legislator and attorney general comprise a record unequaled in the modern era. 
His work as AG will endure as the standard by which future attorneys general are measured. 
His legacy is secure.
The new Forum history book I wrote is still available. 
“Forum Communications Company: A Narrative History 1980-2018” chronicles the company’s growth from a local Fargo-Moorhead newspaper and broadcast company to a regional, multimedia enterprise. 
It’s a family story and a business story, complete with the intrigue of an attempted hostile takeover in the 1980s.
The book is on sale at Zandbroz Variety in downtown Fargo, Minn-Dak Market at West Acres Shopping Center and Ferguson Books in West Fargo, Grand Forks and Bismarck. 
You can pick one up at The Forum during regular business hours, or call The Forum at 701-241-5414 to have one mailed to you. 
Let them know if you want a signed copy. 
Happy to do it.
