Politics, at least in the United States, has been an unserious business for some time now.
Or, let me correct myself. 
It's been a serious business conducted by unserious people, including we voters.
We elected a reality television star to be president, and now we watch as that boorish troglodyte delights in Russia's bloody aggression toward Ukraine.
"That’s the strongest peace force I’ve ever seen," gushed a delighted Donald Trump about Vladimir Putin's amassed forces. 
"There were more army tanks than I’ve ever seen. They’re gonna keep peace all right."
President Joe Biden, meanwhile, only looks up to the task of leading the free world against Russia's violent expansionism in the context of Trump's grotesque fawning. 
The Biden administration, which presided over a disastrous withdrawal from Afghanistan, is not likely to be up to the task.
I've had some readers ask me if I regret my harsh criticism of Biden now that war in Europe is a reality again, and I do not. 
Wartime is the most important time to be clear about the failings of our leaders, and Biden's failings are manifest.
I want him to succeed; I'm terrified he won't.
“You go to war with the army you have, not the army you might want or wish to have at a later time," Donald Rumsfeld once said, and the same can be said of our political leadership
For better or worse, Biden is who we chose as our commander in chief. We're stuck with him.
This brings me back to the point of this column: Elections matter.
The stakes have been low for a long time.
Pax Americana has led entire generations of Americans to take the status quo for granted. 
The Great Depression is just a setting for movies. 
World War II has become a video game.
It's fashionable to be cynical about politics. 
To believe that one candidate isn't all that different from another. 
That attitude is a luxury afforded to us by decades of relative peace and prosperity.
It really does matter who leads us, and at present, we are not well-led.
Like it or not, America has responsibilities in the world. 
Call it imperialism if you must, though, as Kevin Williamson points out , it's "a funny kind of imperial power, one that reverses the usual direction of cash flow in imperial relationships, providing aid and investment rather than demanding tribute."
Will we live up to those responsibilities? 
Or will our intractable domestic politics turn our response to Putin into just another front in the burgeoning culture war?
This is a test, and not just for our political leaders. 
Are we willing to be the America the world needs us to be?
Or will we shrug at the bombing of Kyiv and prepare ourselves to binge-watch Netflix until it's time to vote for the next candidate whose surrogates shouted the loudest and most convincingly on cable news shows?