You may be thinking to yourself that it's still very early in the election year.
From a voter's perspective, you're right. 
But from the perspective of a candidate? 
Someone who must build a campaign apparatus, raise money, build a network of support, and raise name recognition?
It's not that early.
Local district conventions, where candidates are endorsed and delegates to the state conventions are chosen, are more than halfway through. 
The state endorsing conventions are less than two months away. 
The June primary, where the candidates for the November ballot will be chosen, is in just four months.
Despite these looming deadlines, the North Dakota Democratic-NPL doesn't have a single announced candidate for statewide office.
Republicans will have a bevy of incumbents on the statewide ballot. 
Sen. John Hoeven and Congressman Kelly Armstrong are each running for another term ( Hoeven even has a primary challenger ).
Public Service Commissioner Julie Fedorchak said in July she'd seek another six-year term.
Agriculture Commissioner Doug Goehring has told me he's running for another term and will be announcing, officially, soon.
Republicans also have candidates for the open races.
Drew Wrigley was in the race for attorney general before incumbent Wayne Stenehjem passed away . 
Wrigley has since been appointed to that seat by Gov. Doug Burgum.
Rep. Mike Howe, a Republican from Casselton, is running to replace Secretary of State Al Jaeger, who is retiring.
Brian Kroshus, appointed from the Public Service Commission to tax commissioner by Burgum after incumbent Ryan Rauschenberger resigned , is running for his own term in that office.
The only open seat, right now, is on the PSC. 
Burgum will need to appoint someone to the commission to replace Kroshus, and the law will require that person to campaign for the unexpired term this cycle. 
As I write this, we don't know who that is yet.
Still, the Republican slate of candidates, but for the PSC, is set.
What are we hearing from the Democrats? 
The folks obliged to try to make these races competitive?
But for the occasional snotty rejoinder delivered by Democratic-NPL chairman Patrick Hart to political reporters seeking comment on what the Republicans are doing, all our liberal friends have provided the public is the sound of crickets chirping.
There's not even a rumor of candidates at this point.
Apologists will argue that North Dakota is a thoroughly Republican state. 
Thus, candidate recruitment isn't easy for the Democrats.
That's true, as far as it goes, but on the other hand, this also means that any candidate representing the Democratic-NPL on the statewide ballot already has an uphill battle winning over an electorate that tilts heavily toward the GOP.
The hill becomes Sisyphean for the candidates the more they delay their candidacy.
That Democrats don't already have at least a few statewide candidates tells us it will be another year of sending lambs to the slaughter for them. 
They'll eventually nominate some people to fill those races, but if those candidates were serious about winning, they'd already be campaigning.