Today, it's Joe Rogan, and the campaign to get his show pulled from Spotify, the audio streaming service that gave him a $100 million contract to bring his show to their service.
Prince Harry is pressuring Spotify to give Rogan the ax — say, didn't we fight a war so we wouldn't have to listen to British nobles? — joining boomer-generation rockers such as Neil Young and Joni Mitchell, who are pulling their content from Spotify in protest .
How much of this is sincere political activism, and how much if it is the artists, who have always had a tense relationship with Spotify, using Rogan as cover to be vindictive over lost album sales?
I'll let you readers decide.
It's also " Maus ," a chilling graphic novel about the Holocaust which a school board in Tennessee, acquiescing to pressure from the right, banned from an eighth-grade curriculum because it's too violent and unsettling.
But the Holocaust was violent. 
And unsettling (to put it mildly). 
How does one teach that history, or even the art inspired by that history, without confronting that reality?
It's also the Canadian "Freedom Convoy." 
A columnist for The Washington Post argues that the participants in the convoy ought not be "humanized."
"Canada’s response to the convoy should be a strict line of resistance that doubles down on, or in certain cases at least introduces, commitments to anti-hate resistance, pandemic supports, vaccine mandates and a media policy of refusing to platform, humanize, or, God forbid, glorify the convoy and its members beyond the bare necessity of speaking to their existence and outlining a program for pushing back," wrote David Moscrop .
Are we to treat those people like robots?
It's easy, as we list these hot-button debates, to get pulled down into the details. 
Do you like Joe Rogan or Neil Young?
Should eighth-graders be learning about World War II through graphic novels?
Do the Canadian truckers have it right on COVID-19 policies?
The details matter, but then so does this instinct to try and silence the things we disagree with.
What does that tell us about our faith in the truth?
If you think Americans must be protected from Joe Rogan's interviews, are you any better than the Chinese Communists who insist on protecting their citizens from "The Simpsons" ?
To believe in free speech, to believe in not just the legal utility of the First Amendment but what it stands for as a national principle, is to believe that the truth ultimately wins.
If that's not true, then we should get busy hiring more censors.
More dangerous than any edgy graphic novel, or COVID-19 kookery, are the people who have lost faith in the truth, who stop debating the issues, who stop responding to problematic speech with more speech , who focus on who gets to speak rather than what was spoken.
If we abandon our faith in the truth, if we stop believing it will inevitably emerge from muddy trenches of public discourse, then what is left for us?
A debate not about ideas and facts, but rather an ever-descending morass, centered on who gets to decide which speech is allowed, that ultimately leads, as it has so often throughout human history, to the morass of violent authoritarianism.
I'd rather have more Joe Rogan.
