We don't talk to each other anymore.
Our political leaders don't, anyway. 
They exchange barbs through the press and social media, each using the other side as a foil to impress their partisan base with how tough and uncompromising than can be with the opposition.
Because of this, our nation is poorly governed.
This is why President Joe Biden should come to North Dakota. 
He should come see the Bakken oil play. 
The only time Biden has visited our state in years past was for political reasons. 
Campaigning and the like.
It's time he came for a better reason.
Congressman Kelly Armstrong has invited him "to see first hand the essential work that happens every day in domestic oil fields."
Gov. Doug Burgum loved Armstrong's idea and sent Biden an invitation of his own.
"Congressman Kelly Armstrong invited you to visit the Bakken region of North Dakota to see firsthand the work of clean, efficient, domestic oil production," he wrote. 
"We would like to echo his invitation to highlight the role North Dakota could play in meeting national security and clean energy goals."
Burgum goes further and points out that there's more to see in North Dakota than just the safe and responsible development of oil and gas resources. 
Our state is the tip of the spear in the emerging carbon capture industry. 
There are billions of dollars in investments in the pipeline for carbon capture projects in our state .
Biden could get a close-up look at that, too. 
He could talk to some of the brilliantly talented people who are leading way.
The cynics will say this is a political stunt. 
Just a couple of Republicans manipulating the rancor around high energy prices and inflation to score political points.
And besides, these cynics will argue, what political good is there for Biden to visit North Dakota? 
A place where he received less than 32% of the vote in 2020? 
Heck, in McKenzie County, in the heart of the oil patch, the Biden/Harris ticket barely earned 15% of the vote.
Why should Biden pander to a bunch of people who probably aren't ever going to vote for him anyway?
We shouldn't listen to the cynics.
The president's job isn't to get re-elected. It's to lead. 
Right now, leadership looks a lot like doing what we can to help the world get its energy from free and stable societies, like America and Canada, and not despotic regimes like Russia which use the revenues from oil development to expand the influence of their despotism.
But we need to end our dependence on fossil fuels, the president's base will say.
Everybody should just drive a Tesla as rich celebrities like Stephen Colbert do , they'll say, and forget that, even if everyone could find one to buy in the coming months, and even if our power grid could deliver the amount of electricity we'd need to replace gasoline consumption, Teslas and their charging requirements and range limitations (particularly in cold weather!) simply aren't practical for millions and millions of Americans.
This is where reality has to sink in.
We need oil.
We need gas.
We need coal.
As long as those things are true, why wouldn't we use our coal? Our gas? Our oil?
There's a reason why global consumption of these fuels has gone up in recent decades . We aren't using less; we're using more. The "green" alternatives such as wind and solar and the various biofuels aren't ready for prime time.
We must live in reality, and in North Dakota, Biden could see what that looks like.
The view ain't half bad.