My beat is politics, and on the political beat, there is little in the way of good news to offer.
Our nation is not governed well. 
The national debt has topped $30 trillion, and Congress doesn't even really bother to budget anymore. 
Our president is a fool — a doddering political dinosaur who spent his career aspiring to the White House only to finally achieve it by becoming a figurehead for his party's progressive base.
But at least he's not Donald Trump. 
So there's that.
“The Democrats are the party that says government will make you smarter, taller, richer, and remove the crabgrass on your lawn. 
The Republicans are the party that says government doesn't work and then they get elected and prove it," the lately departed P.J. O'Rourke wrote in 2003 .
It's still an accurate summary nearly two decades later.
Yet, there is some hope out there. 
A small spark of light in the darkness. 
Though our national pastime is currently working its way through an ugly labor dispute — the owners have locked out the players as they negotiate a new agreement — it seems that when they finally reach some common ground and get back to playing ball they will do so with a universal designated hitter rule.
No longer will long-suffering Americans be subjected to the eyesore of utterly flummoxed pitchers flailing at thrown balls they have little chance of hitting.
No longer will we see rallies die when the pitcher steps to the plate as the automatic third out.
Hallelujah for that.
Self-styled baseball purists will tell you that pitchers hitting should be part of the game. 
They say the American League hasn't been playing real baseball since April 6, 1963, when Ron Blomberg of the New York Yankees stepped to the plate against Luis Tiant of the Boston Red Sox as the first designated hitter in major league baseball history.
These people have been wrong since the 19th century.
"Every patron of the game is conversant with the utter worthlessness of the average pitcher when he goes up to try and hit the ball," the Cheboygan Democrat reported in 1892 . 
"It is most invariably a trial, and an unsuccessful one at that. If fortune does favor him with a base hit it is ten to one that he is so winded in getting to first or second base on it that when he goes into the box it is a matter of very little difficulty to pound him all over creation."
Legendary manager Connie Mack, fed up with watching pitchers such as Eddie Planck and Charles Bender fail to be credible with a bat in their hands, pushed for a sort of designated hitter rule in 1906 .
In the 1920s, National League President John Heydler tried multiple times to institute a DH rule, and almost succeed in 1929 .
Finally, nearly a century later, these forward-thinking men will get their way.
Inflation may be skyrocketing, and the political class may be largely indiscernible from the stars of some low-rent reality television show, but at least we won't have to watch pitchers hit anymore.