It was just one line in a lengthy, broad story about Democratic Party struggles in rural Minnesota. 
But it deserves a response.
"The Democratic Party has basically left me."
It was uttered by former U.S. Rep. Collin Peterson, who ably represented Minnesota vast rural Seventh District for decades. 
He's a Democrat. 
He lost in 2020 to conservative Republican Michelle Fischbach by 13 points, 53% to 40%.
Peterson, like other Democrats who saw their political careers evaporate because rural Minnesota has become so red, sounds embittered, like an old man who looks around and doesn't recognize his neighborhood because so many new people have moved in.
These fellows blame the Democratic Party for moving leftward (which it has, some, while the Republican Party has moved sharply rightward). 
They blame progressives, like llhan Omar and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, for defining the party (while, interestingly, dangerous regressives like Marjorie Taylor-Green and Matt Gaetz escape blame from the Republican Party).
They blame everybody. 
Except, of course, themselves and the people most responsible for turning rural Minnesota and all of rural America into a right-wing Trumpistan.
That would be rural voters themselves.
There's a chance — call this idea crazy — that the reason rural America has become so deeply Republican is, you know, the people who live there have changed. 
Maybe their thinking, worldview and goals have changed.
Maybe they've bought into the grievance and resentment pitched by Republicans.
Maybe it's on them and not the Democratic Party.
And, sadly for Democrats, maybe there's nothing that can be done. 
Maybe they're gone. 
For generations. 
Perhaps forever.
What should we expect after decades of Fox News, conservative talk-radio, Facebook and whatever other dark corners of the Internet people inhabit have groomed millions of Americans into thinking this nation's great cities are burning piles of rubble, that there are caravans of illegal immigrants invading, that Donald Trump really won the 2020 election?
Peterson did everything he could to save his gig. 
Sold his soul, frankly. 
Voted against Trump's first impeachment — and then after he lost to Fischbach said he would've voted in favor of Trump's second impeachment. 
Of course. 
Peterson said Trump should get his money to build a wall on the Mexican border and later blamed the media for taking his words out of context. 
Of course.
Yet he still garnered only 40% of the vote. 
The most conservative Democrat in the country who did more for the 7th District politically than any person in history and aligned himself with Trump and Republicans even though he knew Trump was a menace ... got 40%.
For all the faults the Democratic Party has — and there are dozens — Peterson losing wasn't the party's fault. 
Despite the visible progressive outliers and a leftward shift, the Democratic Party still stands for things it's always stood for: public education, access to affordable health care, child care, worker rights. 
And it wasn't Peterson's fault. 
He is who he's always been.
It was rural voters who left Peterson. 
They've changed. 
Turning the Democratic Party into GOP Lite isn't going to reverse that.
