Forum News Service recently analyzed the ills of the state's Democratic Party. 
There are many. 
As the proud holder of a minor in political science from a prestigious university located in Moorhead, I'd offer the biggest might be the simplest: More than 7 in 10 North Dakotans identify as Republican or right-leaning, meaning the GOP begins each election one step from home plate while the Democrats haven't got to the ballpark yet.
How the state reached this point of nuclear-red conservatism would be an interesting study. 
I blame loony lefty Tony Bender and critical race theory, which come to think of it have never been seen at the same place at the same time.
North Dakota Republicans like to slap each other on the back at Harold Hamm's ranch in Oklahoma over how smart they are, but the GOP advantage is baked in. 
Let's just say it's much more difficult to be a teen-aged girl in the presence of Matt Gaetz than it is to be a Republican in North Dakota.
Still, Democratic U.S. Senate candidate Katrina Christiansen took to Twitter to respond to the article dissecting the state of her party, which is admittedly one notch shy of rigor mortis. 
Extremely cold but not stiff. 
The perfect condition for a beer, a political party less so.
Christiansen used a thread to point out that Republicans, despite overwhelming electoral success, have screwed up plenty. 
She's not wrong. 
The GOP falls short in several areas near and dear to Democratic hearts. 
Like not turning the state into an industrial park, for example.
Christiansen wraps up her thread with this statement: "That is why I'm running. Because you deserve better."
You deserve better. 
It's a simple political message, commonly used in campaigns from Sarasota to Seattle. 
But it's where things get even stickier for Democrats in North Dakota.
The issue politically for Democrats for years is that its citizens overwhelmingly like the state of their state. 
They are generally happy and believe North Dakota is headed in the right direction.
Poll after poll have shown that. 
I've had Democratic politicians and consultants tell me that, in addition to all the other headwinds Democrats face in the state, one of the more vexing is that a strong majority of North Dakotans like North Dakota.
And if North Dakotans think things are hunky-dory, there's no compelling reason to throw out the party in power.
Make no mistake, this is not said with regret. 
There are far more Republicans than Democrats in North Dakota and they view their state as a clean, safe, spacious, righteous place that reflects their values. 
They vote accordingly. That's their right.
But politically speaking, what's a North Dakota Democrat to do if the populace is happy with the state of affairs? 
You can speak all you wish about the state's too-cozy relationship with Big Oil, or the stifling social policies that repel young people, or the lack of paid family leave and proper child care, but if North Dakotans are satisfied with what they have, where do you make headway?
North Dakotans, it seems, have enough money in their pockets and food on the table. 
They like where they live. 
Their only worries are migrant caravans, Hunter Biden's laptop and Nancy Pelosi.
Until that changes, it's just one more high hurdle for Democrats to overcome at the polls. 
That and Tony Bender.
