So, basically, if you are a powerful Republican in South Dakota you can kill a person with your car, lie to the cops about it, not spend a minute in jail, not miss a day of work, not be held accountable by state lawmakers and mosey on through life as if nothing happened.
It helps to not have a conscience or one shred of empathy, but that's something Jason Ravnsborg will have to work out with his maker. 
The humans who could've seen that poor Joe Boever received justice, or just a little respect, punted.
They should be embarrassed. 
They aren't capable of that.
A South Dakota House committee that had the power to recommend Ravnsborg be impeached for killing Boever instead looked the other way this week. 
It gave the state attorney general numerous benefits of the doubt — and Boever none — while recommending Ravnsborg not be impeached.
The entire legislature could still vote for impeachment next month, but with the committee voting strictly along party lines to not impeach — six Republicans voted to protect Ravnsborg, two Democrats voted for justice for Boever — it's unlikely to happen.
Ravnsborg skated again. 
Being the Republican attorney general of ruby red South Dakota is a nice gig if you can get it. 
You can literally get away with killing somebody and not so much as get a stern talking to.
Life goes on, except for Joe Boever.
Boever is dead, hit by Ravnsborg along the highway passing through Highmore, South Dakota, at 10:30 p.m. on Sept. 12, 2020. 
Ravsnborg was returning to Pierre from a political fundraiser in Redfield. 
Boever, it is believed, was returning to Highmore from his disabled pickup that was in a ditch outside of town.
Ravnsborg continues to traipse through life and is running for reelection this fall.
Regrets, he has none.
Despite investigators determining all four tires on Ravnsborg's car crossed onto the highway shoulder. 
Despite investigators believing Ravnsborg lied to them. Despite the revelation Boever's face came through Ravnsborg's windshield with his glasses ending up in Ravnsborg's car. 
Despite Ravnsborg pleading no contest to using a mobile device while driving.
Despite the indisputable fact Ravnsborg was responsible for killing Boever.
Boever lost his life. 
Ravnsborg will lose nothing, including a minute spent in self-reflection. 
One must possess humanity, a soul, to venture that road.
This is not justice. 
This is a travesty. 
Everyday South Dakotans, regardless of political beliefs or affiliations, should be outraged. 
Boever could be them, or a loved one.
Ravnsborg is a powerful, connected man. 
Boever was the opposite, a "nobody" to all but his family for whom life was a struggle. 
Boever had his battles with alcohol, which Ravnsborg's defense attorneys used to smear him. 
He was just a guy, but Ravnsborg's jackals saw fit to attack him in death.
Is this what passes for justice in South Dakota? 
That the powerful can get away with killing somebody because that somebody is powerless? 
That Boever's life is less valuable than Ravnsborg's because Boever was a "nobody," at least to Republicans in the state?
Isn't South Dakota supposed to be a pro-life state? 
That trope doesn't apply to 55-year-olds like Boever, apparently.
Ravnsborg pleaded no contest to two misdemeanors. 
He paid $1,000 in fines, $3,000 in court costs and was ordered to promote safe driving.
That's the price of Joe Boever's life, at least if you're a powerful Republican in South Dakota. Legislators aren't even going to fire him. It's likely there's a different set of penalties for the rest of us.
