Late stage addiction is a drag. I think a lot of us know how this looks on family and friends, between the opioid plague and alcoholism. It’s as if the person cannot make a rational decision.
That’s a problem for our society. Oil addicts and dealers are not the best policy makers, nor are Russian dictators. Here’s a thought Bill McKibben recently shared in The Guardian:
“Imagine a Europe that ran on solar and wind power, whose cars ran on locally provided electricity, and whose homes were heated by electric air-source heat pumps. That Europe would not be funding Putin’s Russia, and it would be far less scared of Putin’s Russia – it could impose every kind of sanction and keep them in place until the country buckled. Imagine an America where the cost of gas was not a political tripwire, because if people had to have a pickup to make them feel sufficiently manly, that pickup would run on electricity that came from the sun and wind. It would take an evil-er genius than Vladimir Putin to figure out how to embargo the sun.”
Then there’s the oil companies, in their big profit mode after having lost their butts for a bit. That’s to say that Exxon dropped out of the blue chip stocks a few years back. The big dogs in the economy are the tech guys. But they are intent on getting back up for sure. Oil markets from Russia to Venezuela are central political battles in the fossil fuels addiction economy and, surprise, the oil companies are gouging consumers.
Think about it this way: As the price of gas hits $5 a gallon or more, take good note of the 8.6 million barrels of oil exported daily. It’s all about the money. Dealers don’t really care about addicts.
Like the rest of us, I have spent my whole life in the fossil fuel economy. And, basically, I’m ready to move along, before the ecosystems collapse and oil is in all the water. I think of this as a graceful transition.
So, how to start?
I’m going to put myself on a bit of a carbon/fossil fuels diet, and get as much from solar and renewables as I can. I'm working to cut my travel budget (Zoom helps a great deal). And then, I will start with the hoe and the horse. I’m a farmer and want to get a little more simple. We do some horse farming here and we are about to expand that, from the horse-drawn manure spreader to putting in some corn, hemp and row crops. I like that relationship and that the horse has more power than I do in the gardens.
It turns out that small scale farming is efficient, cost effective and environmentally sound with a team of horses. And that hemp is the best way to sequester carbon – about 10 times as fast as anything else. Maybe one day, we won't be wearing fossil fuels as clothing. That would be healing for Mother Earth.
I'm also going to cut the fuel bill for my food, which means rather than move tomatoes 1,400 miles to my dinner table I’m going to grow some, and then dry them for the winter, I’ll eat root vegetables, and I am going to work on getting more local foods, from hard cider to cheese, to meat. All of that can be purchased in the North Country.
Then there’s that electric thing, let’s use less and make it renewable. Time to quit with the gas- guzzling vehicles. The combustion engine is only 16% efficient, and an electric engine is 60% efficient. That’s some simple math. I am so ready to send off the last fossil fuels truck into the sunset.
My new favorite is the Lightning, the electric F-150 from Ford. Those trucks are in big demand. In the world of clean energy, few areas are as dynamic and growing as the electric car market. In the whole of 2012, about 130,000 electric cars were sold worldwide. Today, that many are sold in the space of a single week, according to the World Economic Forum . There’s a rebirth in the American car industry, and it’s electric. More than that, we actually need some electric trains to get between, say Minneapolis and Fargo and Duluth, or lots of places. We can do better, and really we must, or else we are going to spend the rest of our lives in crisis.
I say it’s time to move along, and not worry about that Russian oil. It’s called the “vagaries of the fossil fuel market.” Put it this way, the price of wind did not go up this winter. And, it’s going to keep coming our way. Time to move on and send all those dictators, dealers and bullies packing.
