Government accountability is a challenge. 
Say that your tribal government signed a secret contract for $4.9 million of your tribal money for a tribal energy plan with a newly created entity you’ve never heard of.
In 2012, the tribe put up 30 units of “solar ready” tax credit houses in the villages of White Earth, Rice Lake and Naytahwaush. 
Those houses never got their solar electric panels on them. Gordon Construction, which had the contracts, never completed the project. 
So, hundreds of thousands of dollars later, these houses stand, and no one was held accountable.
Ten years ago, our tribe did an energy plan. And, with the White Earth Land Recovery Project, our tribe put up the White Earth wind turbine. 
The reservation has Class Four wind along Highway 59. Last year, with the help of the RREAL — Rural Renewable Energy Alliance — the tribe installed four solar projects. 
Meanwhile, 8th Fire Solar began manufacturing solar thermal panels to reduce heating bills by 20%, selling these panels nationally, and installing them on tribal houses. 
Tribal members produce those panels. 
Straight outta Ponsford. 
In the fall of 2021, the White Earth tribe asked 8th Fire Solar to come up with a proposal to address the 30 solar ready houses, and keep a promise to the residents.
Enter Disaster Capitalism. 
That’s when corporations and corrupt decision makers start allocating disaster funds to special projects which benefit the top 1%, not the folks in the housing project.
Total Spectrum, a newly created entity received a $4.9 million contract to create an energy plan for White Earth. 
Secretary Alan Roy wanted tribal members involved, so he invited a group of tribal members to become a special community Green Team. 
None had real experience with renewable energy. 
In turn, Roy was able to pay those tribal members well, and it turns out, some of those tribal members helped Roy with a petition to remove Chairman Mike Fairbanks from office. 
Fairbanks reported this to the Minnesota attorney general as possible “racketeering.” 
Classic corruption of power.
Usually a tribal energy plan would cost $100,000, and it would have spreadsheets, time tables, business plans and legal documents. 
This has none. 
That’s to say, in 2019, the Department of Energy allocated $1 million between 11 tribes for feasibility studies like this. 
Most of those tribes received less than $100,000. 
In fact, Leech Lake received funding in 2019 for the feasibility and planning for a tribal electric utility. 
Maybe we could just cut and paste from their plan?
The report sounds sort of crazy, frankly. 
Here are some questions one might ask: What corporate structure would supply solar power to Bagley, an off-reservation city with a municipal utility? 
How would White Earth participate in a 230 MW solar project and who would be the partners? 
And are we powering a bitcoin mining project and installing a hydro electric dam near Roy Lake — proposing a 40-acre reservoir in the Buckboards?
Surprise. 
There’s no mention of the Class 4 wind in the western portion of the reservation. 
Nor was there any mention of the small tribal business building solar thermal panels in Ponsford, except to say that the completed proposal for the 30 solar ready homes, solicited by the tribe, now ready for action, should be shelved, and put up for a competitive bid. 
And, we should get into hydro power. 
Dams?
It turns out that Spectrum hired a consultant, Chuck Alsberg, co-owner of North American Hydro Holdings Inc., which owned and operated 44 hydroelectric projects throughout a five-state region in the midwestern United States. 
The company is listed as having one employee. 
North American Hydro Holdings would profit from Native Nations: “Indigenous tribes are given special consideration and preference for development on federal facilities. 
This pertains to construction of hydroelectric facilities on Army Corps of Engineer dam sites. 
This preference could significantly reduce the approval time for tribal development compared to non-tribal development on those sites ....”
That’s at the core of this project, a corporate interest using Indians to gain access. 
Old story. 
Hydro’s probably a great idea, but I’d like a full disclosure as to how our $4.9 million was spent. 
We could have powered the village of White Earth with the Total Spectrum check. 
How about we work together to make a good future for our people, and not let corruption waste our power?
