A cynic is rarely disappointed by this Republican Party. 
Yet even by that standard, the current attempt to blame President Biden — and absolve Vladimir Putin — for the spike in gas prices is a special case.
For days, Republicans called for a ban on imports of Russian oil, a move that, while the right thing to do to counter Putin’s attack against Ukraine, would cause already high gas prices to rise even further. 
Biden did as Republicans wanted — and they responded by blaming his energy policies for spiking gas prices.
It’s not only that the charge is bogus — the current price of gas has virtually nothing to do with Biden’s energy policies — but that the Republican officials leveling it are sowing division at home and giving a rhetorical boost to the enemy at a perilous moment when national unity and sacrifice will be needed to prevail against Russia.
Announcing the ban on Tuesday, Biden said, accurately: “Since Putin began his military buildup on Ukrainian borders, just since then, the price of the gas at the pump in America went up 75 cents. 
And with this action, it’s going to go up further.” 
He dubbed it “Putin’s price hike” and said “Russia is responsible.”
Republicans leaped to Putin’s defense.
“These aren’t Putin prices. They’re President Biden’s prices,” House GOP leader Kevin McCarthy said during a news conference on Wednesday. 
Via tweet, he claimed: “Gas prices started rising the day President Biden took office — when he canceled the Keystone Pipeline and halted new drilling on federal lands.”
Rep. Elise Stefanik (N.Y.), head of the House Republican Conference, added: “Joe Biden blames Russia for skyrocketing gas prices. But make no mistake — Biden’s war on American energy is to blame.”
Scores of Republicans piled on. 
The GOP side of the House Energy and Commerce Committee tweeted: “Russia isn’t ‘responsible’. Biden’s shutdown of American energy is.”
That’s just a gusher of mendacity.
Gas prices “started rising the day President Biden took office”? 
Wrong. 
They’ve been on an upward trend since bottoming out in April 2020 at the start of the coronavirus pandemic. 
This is because of booming demand during the recovery — not because of Biden’s policies (or President Donald Trump’s, for that matter).
Canceling the Keystone XL pipeline caused gas prices to rise? 
Wrong. 
It was only 10 percent done when Biden canceled it, and its owners didn’t expect to open it until 2023 at the earliest.
Biden “halted new drilling on federal lands”? 
Wrong. 
After a temporary halt in new leases, Biden has outpaced Trump in new drilling permits for public lands, The Post reported.
As for Biden’s “shutdown of American energy,” U.S. production has increased under Biden from 9.7 million barrels a day to 11.6 million barrels. 
The number of oil rigs operating was at 172 in July 2020, E&E News reports. 
Now, 519 are in operation. U.S. production is forecast to set a record next year.
What’s holding back oil production isn’t government policy. 
U.S. producers still have 4,400 wells already approved and drilled that are not yet producing. 
They aren’t drilling more because of a shortage of workers and equipment and, particularly, investors’ greed. 
As The Post reported, major U.S. oil companies say they would rather use their profits “to boost payouts to shareholders” than “rush to drill new wells.”
Blaming Biden for the spike in prices around Russia’s Ukraine invasion isn’t just false — it’s an assist to Putin that damages national security.
Polls show that Americans — Republicans and Democrats alike — favor banning Russian oil imports, even if that increases energy prices. 
Seventy-nine percent said so in a Wall Street Journal poll this week. 
Americans know the stakes, and they are willing to sacrifice.
But what happens if Republican lawmakers and their Fox News masters persuade their supporters to believe that Biden, not Putin, is to blame for their problems? 
Their willingness to sacrifice dissipates — and so does their support for the fight against Putin.
It’s lucky this hasn’t happened already. Fox News’s Tucker Carlson, after parroting Kremlin talking points justifying its invasion of Ukraine, has pivoted to blaming the United States for provoking Putin. 
“Why in the world would the United States intentionally seek war with Russia?” he asked on Monday night.
Trump himself has praised Putin’s acuity, Sen. Josh Hawley (R-Mo.) has called for the United States to appease Russia by abandoning its support for Ukrainian membership in NATO, and Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene (R-Ga.), after proposing to impeach Biden for “threatening war” with Russia, now asks: “How is banning Russian oil (10 percent of our imports) helping reduce gas prices hurting Americans?”
Fighting Russian aggression while avoiding World War III is hard enough. 
With Republicans acting in bad faith, it’s that much harder.